Discussion Name: Is globalisation good or bad?

1. Globalization is a good thing.
1.1. Con: Globalisation undermines both global and local regulations in many areas as companies/rich simply move to unregulated jurisdictions to avoid responsibility.
1.1.1. Pro: Globalisation undermines employment regulations such as pay equity, safety, and remuneration \(minimum wage\)
1.1.2. Pro: Globalisation undermines environmental regulation as the threat of lawsuits for lost profits under ISDS provisions in so called "free trade" agreements chills new regulations.
1.1.3. Pro: Globalisation undermines economic regulations such as applying taxes to recoup "externalised costs" by moving production, taxing excessive profits to promote reinvestment by allowing moving money to tax havens.
1.1.4. Con: International cooperation between jurisdiction can reduce the impact of these practices.
1.1.4.1. Con: This claim does not make the original claim less true; unless additional cooperation is undertaken, a race to the bottom regarding wages and regulations is still going to take place.
1.1.5. Con: Globalization is not directly related to companies or individuals profiting of lax regulations in some jurisdictions. In this case those practices by these people are to blame, not Globalization itself.
1.1.5.1. Con: Even if people tend seek out loopholes regardless, globalisation makes it easier for them to do so.
1.1.5.2. Pro: Globalisation is not an established political ideology yet, like Capitalism that is responsible for international exploitation of earths resources since mid-17th century.
1.1.6. Con: Once achieved, there would be only one global jurisdiction, leaving no place for corporations/rich to move to in order to avoid responsibility.
1.1.6.1. Con: This is not globalization but world government. Globalization doesn't necessitate a central jurisdiction; the only way that would be the case would be under a single world governing body.
1.1.7. Pro: Globalization undermines the autonomy of a country’s government to protect its citizens.
1.2. Pro: Globalisation lowers the costs for goods and services to the end-consumers.
1.2.1. Pro: Globalization means freer markets through more competition both between companies and between states through tax-friendly environments to attract more capital.
1.2.1.1. Con: Freer market do not have to be beneficial to a society. More competition between companies can lead to lower salaries and worse labor condition.
1.2.1.2. Con: Freer market do not have to be beneficial to a society. More competition between states on taxation will mean less revenues to fianance welfare program, and can lead to a race to the bottom that will leave everybody worse off \(except the shareholders\).
1.2.2. Con: With the richest 1% saving their profits in off-shore tax havens, globalisation fails to address this. Fundamental changes in morality are needed for globalisation to act as a force of economic equality.
1.2.3. Pro: Globalization increases wealth and standard of living for the majority of people related to manufacturing jobs in developing nations.
1.2.4. Pro: Globalization helps nations focus on their [comparative advantages](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/comparativeadvantage.asp). This helps every nation use their own resources as efficiently as possible, benefiting everyone involved.
1.2.5. Pro: Through globalized markets, economies of scale are easier to be reached.
1.2.5.1. Pro: Globalization reduces consumer prices and adds variety.
1.2.5.1.1. Pro: Thanks to globalization, the cost of transport has reduced, making traveling more affordable.
1.2.5.1.1.1. Pro: This travel cost reduction allows more people to travel, increasing tourism activities.
1.2.5.1.1.1.1. Con: Increased tourism can be challenging to local communities e.g. if tourists are using rare water resources in dry areas like Egypt or Spain.
1.2.5.1.1.1.2. Pro: An increase in tourism activity is beneficial to local businesses and local economy.
1.2.5.1.1.1.3. Pro: RyanAir is willing to offer flights "free" in the near future and has already democratized this means of transport. [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2016/nov/22/ryanair-flights-free-michael-oleary-airports)
1.2.5.1.1.2. Con: That is not necessarily a good thing. Increased travel pollutes the environment.
1.2.5.1.1.2.1. Pro: Aircraft engines emit heat, noise, particulates, and gases which contribute to climate change \(e.g., 2%+ of the world's CO2 emissions\). » [IPCC on the impact of aviation](https://web.archive.org/web/20070710170347/http://www.ipcc.ch/pub/av\(E\).pdf)
1.2.5.2. Con: Dependence upon economies of scale drives economic consolidation and inequality.
1.2.5.3. Con: Globalization retards and limits economies of scale by eroding the home markets of developed countries.  With a smaller interior market, less products are sold and costs per unit of production rise.
1.3. Pro: Globalization means a reduction of poverty throughout the globe.
1.3.1. Con: Poverty is relative. Lower salaries in developed countries with high price index will mean higher shares of poverty.
1.3.2. Pro: Globalization [allows people](https://www.adamsmith.org/blog/international/ten-very-good-things-9-globalization) in poorer countries to sell their wares in larger world markets. This generates income, thus helping the economics of that country.
1.3.2.1. Pro: This influx of money helps to fund jobs and market growth.
1.3.2.1.1. Pro: Bringing their wares to a larger market increases awareness, and thus demand.
1.4. Pro: Globalisation advances society's use of technology.
1.4.1. Pro: Globalisation brings us as a human race closer to becoming a [K1 civilization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kardashev_scale) and eventually a K2.
1.4.1.1. Pro: As a K1 society we can finally start proper exploration of space. At least our solar system.
1.4.1.2. Pro: By becoming a K1 civilisation, borders and economic inequality will be obsolete in their present form.
1.4.1.2.1. Con: It is not evident that becoming a K1 civilization and/or eliminating borders will lead to Economic Equality.
1.4.1.2.2. Con: It is not evident that borders are without their merits.
1.4.2. Pro: Increased competition from globalization helps stimulate new technology development, particularly with the growth in FDI, which helps improve economic output by making processes more efficient.
1.4.2.1. Pro: [Foreign direct investment \(“FDI”\)](https://www.thebalance.com/globalization-and-its-impact-on-economic-growth-1978843) tends to increase at a much greater rate than the growth in world trade, helping boost technology transfer, industrial restructuring, and the growth of global companies.
1.4.2.2. Con: There is no empirical support for the claim that more competition is responsible for technology development.
1.4.3. Con: Globalization can greatly reduce the spread of new technologies, as it enforces strong intellectual property protection.
1.4.4. Pro: It creates enough data for big data, where new inferences can be made on a large-scale that could never be made on a small one.
1.4.5. Pro: Globalization spreads technologies around the world, so everyone can take advantage of them.
1.4.5.1. Con: This is not represented in low income and marginalized groups, especially in developing countries.
1.4.5.1.1. Con: Yet they are more likely to encounter such technologies than they would be without globalisation, which speeds up their economic development.
1.4.5.1.2. Pro: In this globalised world, the flow of innovation seems to be moving in one direction, from the developed world to the developing world, which consolidates the inequality gap that exists.
1.4.5.1.3. Con: GMO crops have reached African nations, offering better profitability for these individuals as well as ensuring food security for the countries' populations.
1.4.5.1.3.1. Con: Some GMO crops have been developed to offer better profitability for owners of the IPR of GMO's not African nations. [Also they have heath effects and serious effect to the ecological systems where ever they are used](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213453016300295).
1.4.5.2. Con: Wasn't it the Internet that spreads technologies? Globalisation was enabled by such technologies.
1.4.5.3. Con: Globalization limits the possibility of copying already existing technlogies, necessary for the a developing economy to progress.
1.4.5.4. Pro: Globalization plays a key role in transfer of technologies, and thereby advancement, to countries that don't have the means and resources \(capital/labor\) to build them on their own.
1.4.5.5. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.1.3.
1.5. Con: Globalization leads to the interdependence between nations, which could cause regional or global instabilities if local economic fluctuations end up impacting a large number of countries relying on them.
1.6. Con: Globalization isn't a matter of good or bad, it is a matter of agreement or disagreement.
1.6.1. Pro: From an American ["Wilsonian"](https://www.amazon.com/Special-Providence-American-Foreign-Changed/dp/0375412301/ref=mt_hardcover?_encoding=UTF8&me=&qid=1538266501) perspective, globalization forces produce reduced conflict—the presupposition being: everyone desires the same goals as Western civilizations.
1.6.2. Con: The issue with agreement or disagreement are similar to the idiom that "history is written by the victors"...that is, we tend to believe in the righteousness of whatever side we happen to occupy. Globalization is only as good as the positive socio-economic results it produces in the country.
1.7. Pro: Globalisation has made the world more harmonious.
1.7.1. Pro: Among EU member states, there has not been a major war in [73 years](http://www.brusselstimes.com/opinion/2974/how-did-the-europe-construct-its-longest-peacetime-ever). While one may point out that armed conflicts have occurred on the continent, they have all noticeably taken place in countries outside the EU. The EU stands as an example of financial integration outweighing the benefits of armed conflicts.
1.7.1.1. Pro: This fact becomes more astonishing after one considers the history of and cultural emphasis on war in these countries.
1.7.2. Pro: Globalization connects people and societies worldwide in multiple interdependent networks, reducing the risk of conflict at an international level because the attacking in any way of a country that you are connected with in multiple disciplines would harm your own progress.
1.7.2.1. Pro: Nations depend on each other for resources, such as oil, the food supply, or technologies.
1.7.3. Con: Large scale movement of people between vastly different cultures leads to the formation of ethnic/religious/racial factions in society, which will inevitably generate conflict.
1.7.3.1. Pro: Some see the rise of nation-states, multinational or global firms and other international organizations as a threat to sovereignty. Ultimately, this could cause some leaders to become nationalistic or xenophobic.
1.7.4. Pro: Global institutions such as the [UN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations) has been established and able to facilitate peace between nations as a result of globalization.
1.7.5. Pro: By being exposed to new ideas via the Internet and traditional international media outlets, our cultures become more alike, we can relate to each other \(CNN effect\) and we can be more accepting of each other.
1.7.5.1. Con: This is not globalization, this is technological advancement.
1.7.6. Con: Globalization, to the extent it supports free markets that are under-regulated, has made the world less harmonious by promoting arms exports--even to dictators.
1.7.7. Con: Globalization should not be confused with international diplomacy.  Such diplomacy is necessary to handle cross-border scale but has little to do with advancing the interests of large, transnational corporations.  The power of such corporations actually has often constrained international climate agreements' effectiveness.
1.8. Pro: Global collaborative efforts are required to tackle new issues with cross-border scale.
1.8.1. Pro: The next step to our evolution as a species is to colonise space and spread our civilisation to our galaxy and beyond. Globalisation is the natural evolutionary process that transcends humans to that state of Type I civilisation.
1.8.2. Con: That is not what globalization means. The common definition for globalization is a programme of economic liberalization of trade. Higher international cooperation does not necessitate higher trade and capital flows.
1.8.2.1. Con: The common definition is inherent to the claim that bilateral or multilateral cooperation is required to address 'new issues with cross-border scale'.
1.8.3. Con: Collaboration efforts on global issues such as climate change often lead to procrastination, since governments cannot agree on a joint effort. This hinders resolution.
1.8.4. Pro: Global warming cannot be curbed by the efforts of one nation or confederation of states alone.
1.9. Pro: Globalization enriches cultures.
1.9.1. Pro: Globalization allows cultures to enjoy a diverse array of entertainment.
1.9.1.1. Pro: [Netflix](https://hbr.org/2018/10/how-netflix-expanded-to-190-countries-in-7-years), a product of globalization, shares hundreds of international TV shows and films to 190 countries worldwide.
1.9.2. Pro: Globalization exposes people to values, beliefs, and ideas that are are different than their own.
1.10. Con: Globalization is synonymous with homogenization and an increased lack of diversity.
1.10.1. Con: The fear of homogenisation commonly leads to political and cultural activism aiming for an increased focus on, awareness and recreation of concepts of cultural and national identities. In turn, this supports diversity and heterogenization.
1.10.2. Pro: Globalization eliminates cultural distinctions, eliminating the rights of any population to make decisions in their own best interest.
1.10.2.1. Con: Individual rights and the rights of groups do not depend on cultural distinctions.
1.10.3. Con: The rise of a globalized culture does not imply the end of diversity. Culture is constantly changing and shifting to the population's environment and there is no evidence to suggest globalization can directly lead to a lack of diversity.
1.10.3.1. Pro: If groups move closer together they mix their culture and habits - creating a different culture. It's a process that started thousands of years ago with thousands of tribes and has not come to an end now.
1.10.4. Pro: As native languages lose out in economic competition to global languages they disappear along with much of the cultures they convey.
1.10.4.1. Con: A culture usually represents the current or recent state of a society. Old traditions don't represent current ethos and cannot be a guide for the future. Culture needs to evolve in parallel to match our technological advance and prevent dangerous imbalances in our civilisation.
1.10.5. Pro: Global consumer product corporations flood all countries with \(virtually\) the same products, where they replace the original goods. Supermarkets in all of Europe feature the same stuff from Nestle, P&G; international brands like Starbucks are outcompeting local coffee shops, etc.
1.10.5.1. Con: Just because a single company is marketing the same product in various markets doesn't make it homogenization. These same companies have competitors within the respective market.
1.10.6. Con: People now have access to foreign cultures from anywhere in the world. The world's cultures are much more diverse than one single country's culture.
1.10.6.1. Pro: Globalization is more about connection than homogenization.  It does not negatively impact diversity.
1.10.7. Pro: Globalisation diminishes the natural local development of new culture and ideas which allows the macro economic structures in place determine a community's fate rather than the community itself.
1.10.8. Con: The fusion of foreign cultures brings people close together.
1.10.8.1. Con: People may experience alienation and loneliness in globalised, multicultural societies due to missing common cultural ground \(multiculturalism\).
1.10.9. Pro: In the name of globalization, even the better aspects of different cultures, ones from which other cultures could learn, are sacrificed in favor of the western culture \(read: the culture of the 'many' in globalization\)
1.11. Con: Globalization is bad for the environment, effectively increasing global warming.
1.11.1. Con: Globalization makes it possible for environmental initiatives to have a global \( hence the word globalization \) effect, whereas deglobalization could only spawn regional efforts.
1.11.1.1. Con: Globalization does not mean higher international cooperation. It's definition is about open markets and free capital movement.
1.11.2. Pro: Globalization as part of the consumer engine that supports artificially high population and unsustainable pressure on natural systems. It is bad because it [accelerates](http://www.stockholmresilience.org/research/planetary-boundaries.html) the threat to our species and planet.
1.11.2.1. Pro: Praising globalization as efficient or good needs to be evaluated in the long-term trajectory.
1.11.3. Pro: The transportation of products across the world is polluting.
1.11.3.1. Pro: The early stages of economic growth for countries [produce](https://www.resilience.org/stories/2018-02-26/globalizations-deadly-footprint/) the largest amounts of pollutants in comparison to developed countries.
1.11.3.1.1. Pro: [Ninety-two percent](https://www.resilience.org/stories/2018-02-26/globalizations-deadly-footprint/) of pollution-related deaths happen in lower to middle-class countries where globalization is taking place.
1.11.3.2. Con: Companies do not need to transport their products to other countries. Instead, they could partner with local businesses in these countries to set up subsidiaries that can manufacture and/or sell their products.
1.11.4. Pro: Developing countries tend to use fewer resources. When they see developed countries, they want to have the same lifestyle as them and will use more resources to gain it.
1.11.5. Con: Globalizations benefits outweigh its detriments to global warming and is therefore good.
1.11.6. Con: What is bad for the environment is the lifestyle of the developed countries, especially the United States.
1.11.7. Con: Thanks to globalisation, developing nations will be able to rapidly grow a more sustainable society because they do not have old infrastructure they are beholden to, depreciating, and heavily invested in. They will skip technologies and go straight for what makes more sense today.
1.11.7.1. Con: That implies that globalization helps the development of countries, which is difficult to demonstrate.
1.12. Con: Globalization increases domestic inequality.
1.12.1. Pro: Globalisation means that wages in MEDCs have to compete with the low labour costs in LEDCs, which drives down wages.
1.12.1.1. Con: Wage increase/decrease means nothing until paired with inflation/deflation data in order to assess spending power.
1.12.1.1.1. Pro: In general, any means allowing for decreasing production costs will help decrease inflation.
1.12.1.2. Pro: Globalization, associated with capital flight, weakens trade unions.
1.12.1.2.1. Pro: By weakening unions, it weakens the political base of certain political parties that historically have been on the left and potential sources of global solidarity.
1.12.2. Con: Globalization, as an institution, doesn't directly impact wealth inequalities. Domestic policies and laws in numerous developed nations have reduced or prevented most of the inequality impacts.
1.12.2.1. Con: The inequality provoked by globalization has been completely neglected in developed countries, as it is extremely difficult to assess who is damaged by it.
1.12.3. Con: Domestic lives are not worth more than foreign/global lives, and Globalization enables the progress of  humanity as a whole.
1.12.4. Pro: Globalization threatens the poorest in their survival.
1.12.4.1. Pro: One example being EU fishing trawlers competing for fish with local fishermen along the African coast. Local fishermen see their catch steadily declining because of this. [www.theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2012/apr/02/eu-fishing-west-africa-mauritania)
1.12.4.2. Pro: Globalisation increases international inequality, benefitting the rich over the poor.
1.12.4.2.1. Pro: As developing nations are competing for business from wealthier nations, there is a 'race to the bottom' that emerges.
1.12.4.2.1.1. Con: Economic efficiency is not "a race to the bottom" but competition stimulating the most effective use of available resources.
1.12.4.2.2. Con: Before the times of globalization the "first world" was exploiting the world more than today. That is how we became the "developed nations". Exploiting has nothing to do with globalization.
1.12.4.2.3. Con: The use of the workforce in developing nations gives them work opportunities, while people in the developed nations are losing their jobs. This scheme benefits to the developing nations, not to the developed ones.
1.12.4.2.4. Con: Globalisation drives up wages in under-developed countries thus increasing the world wealth.
1.12.4.2.4.1. Con: Developing countries that are exploited for their cheap labor costs will be abandoned for cheaper ones when salaries rise.
1.12.4.2.5. Pro: Western multinational corporations exploit the cheap labor and natural resources of the global south.
1.12.4.2.5.1. Con: Cheap labor workers are usually better off taking those jobs. Otherwise, they wouldn't take them.
1.12.4.2.6. Pro: Developed nations' capitalists are able to increase their profits by building factories in poor countries and industries in developing nations are destroyed by disloyal competition.
1.12.4.2.6.1. Pro: This is because globalization, as it is today, represents complete liberty of movement for capital while most people and their talents get locked up behind borders.
1.12.5. Con: Simultaneously, they are benefiting from a higher disposable income and increasing wealth, when compared to prior decades.
1.12.6. Con: Globalisation is only one part of a greater mechanism that is doing this wealth gap spreading.
1.12.6.1. Con: Being a concause of wealth inequality does not make globalization not a cause of wealth inequality.
1.12.6.2. Pro: Budget cuts to education and job losses through digitalization affect peoples wages more concretely, especially as the company owners and leaders around the world keep raising their own wages.