Discussion Name: Should There Be Religious Exemptions To The Law?

1. There should not be religious exemptions to the law.
1.1. Con: Religious exemptions are eventually extended to all, which creates a more open and tolerant society.
1.1.1. Pro: The ability to [opt out of military service](https://www.jstor.org/stable/1227529) and the [Pledge of Allegiance](https://education.findlaw.com/student-rights/the-pledge-of-allegiance-and-legal-challenges-in-education.html) were originally fought for by religious groups and now the right to opt out has now been granted to everyone.
1.1.2. Pro: The [right to affirm](https://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-32809040) rather than take an oath to enter political office was granted in the United Kingdom to Quakers first in 1866 before it was extended to atheists in 1888.
1.1.3. Con: Religious exemptions aren't democratic allowing them to exist sets a bad precedence.
1.2. Pro: Exemptions should not be absolute, as it depends on which laws are being defined.
1.2.1. Pro: Natural laws concerning murder, rape, property rights apply to all and warrant no exemptions. Arbitrary laws \(conscription, taxation, mandatory vaccination, imminent domain, etc ad infinitum\) represent tyranny that should be opposed by any means possible including religious exemptions if you can get them.
1.2.2. Con: Religious exemption is not absolute, and is only valid for specific laws in specific circumstances.
1.3. Con: Exemptions help the state avoid unnecessary confrontations with its citizens.
1.3.1. Pro: Specific, tailored, religious exemptions can allow the government to balance the goals of the laws with religious freedom.
1.3.1.1. Pro: The government has a general obligation to educate its citizens. Certain religions have deeply held convictions against government sponsored schooling. [Religious exemptions for homeschooling](https://heav.org/virginia-homeschool-laws/religious-exemption/religious-exemption-demystified/) can allow laws to not impose undue burdens for those who have deeply held convictions.
1.3.1.2. Con: The government should not favor religious beliefs in any scenario.
1.3.2. Con: If a legal confrontation is unnecessary then the law itself is unnecessary. If a law is unnecessary then it should just be removed instead of exempted for the religious.
1.3.2.1. Con: This isn't always the case, in many cases the state can accomplish a goal while allowing exemptions.
1.3.2.1.1. Pro: In the event of a draft, pacifists can be placed in noncombat roles - this does not negate the draft. If a clerk doesn't want to sign a gay marriage license, they could be permitted to send it to another clerk, and the couple would still be able to marry. Since the goals of those policies can be accomplished without forcing confrontation, the confrontation is indeed unnecessary.
1.3.2.2. Pro: Considering the law has to have been enacted at some point, it can be assumed to actually be necessary. This immediately invalidates the need to prevent unnecessary confrontations, since there are no unnecessary confrontations.
1.3.3. Pro: Without exemptions, there would likely be tension or hostility between the state and those wanting to exercise their religious freedoms.
1.3.3.1. Con: If a law can be subverted for religious reasons, the law should be changed to allow non-religious people to operate in the same manner as their religious counterparts.
1.3.3.1.1. Con: The state generally doesn't test for religion in the context of conscientious objection, so non-religious people can operate in the same manner if they also have convictions that conflict with a policy.
1.3.3.1.2. Con: Assuming a law allowed for exemptions because of religious reasons, then allowing total exemption would contradict this assumption.
1.3.3.1.3. Con: The law should not favor one citizen over the other, but exemptions are designed to ensure the law is just when applied to individual circumstances.

If the underlying circumstances are the same, it should apply to all, for example if the religious person claims moral grounds and the non-religious person claims moral grounds.

This is not the same as making any exemption universal regardless of underlying circumstances, which undermines the idea of an exemption.
1.3.3.1.4. Pro: Any law we are ok creating exceptions for is a law we do not hold as critical to society.  At that point we should all question why it is a law we allow enforced on the rest of us.  \(There may be a reason.. But it should be very carefully looked at\)
1.3.3.1.4.1. Con: Every single law has exceptions. Killing someone is illegal *except* in self-defense, in defense of others, in some cases in defense of property, by state agents in defense of the state and so on. Religious belief is simply another aspect of the context to be considered as relevant or irrelevant in the framing and application of a law.
1.3.4. Con: -> See 1.3.3.1.
1.3.5. Con: The confrontation is necessary if the possible results negatively impact others in society.
1.4. Con: Religious law and civil law are not mutually exclusive.
1.4.1. Pro: In some cases religious laws are stricter than civil laws \(e.g. abortion, adultery, alcohol consumption, et cetera\).
1.4.1.1. Pro: There is no expectation that all such laws should apply to non-religious individuals. Therefore, there should not be an expectation that all civil laws should apply to religious individuals arbitrarily.
1.5. Con: Religious exemptions arise when the law compels people to do something many do not want to do. The exemptions are an acknowledgement that other forces also compel people's actions creating unresolveable conflict.
1.6. Pro: Religious exemption apply when there isn't a compelling state interest \(health and safety during an epidemic\) that must be met. That's enough reason to violate freedom of religion. [Is Mandatory Vaccination Legal in Time of Epidemic?](https://journalofethics.ama-assn.org/article/mandatory-vaccination-legal-time-epidemic/2006-04)
1.7. Pro: Laws are created to protect our society and so if we create religious exemptions to our laws then we are not protecting our society but instead creating precedent for overruling any law that goes against our individual core beliefs.
1.7.1. Con: Religious exemptions need not necessarily pose a threat to society.
1.8. Pro: Laws have been created from religious right and wrongs. It would undermine their creation to ignore religion when contemplating the law.
1.8.1. Pro: The law on murder for example stemmed from the religious concept of the Ten Commandments saying ‘thou shall not kill’.
1.9. Con: The purpose of the law is to protect the rights of the citizens. So long as no one's rights are being violated, there are no good reasons to not have religious exemptions.
1.10. Pro: Law should judge everyone equally.
1.10.1. Pro: Any alteration, for religious purposes or not, that compromises the principle of equality before the law is a step backwards to a less civilized society.
1.10.1.1. Pro: Throughout most of history, people have lived with the reality of a law that does not apply equally to everyone. This unequal application of the law has caused abuse, exploitation and untold misery.
1.10.2. Pro: There's no exception to the law, if religious people reject civil law fine, but they obey it or end up in prison, simple arrangement.
1.10.3. Con: Both law and religion are arbitrary constructs of man. These constructs are fallible, therefore there should be exemptions to both religion and law.
1.10.3.1. Con: Law is the one thing that unifies all. Religion depends from person to person, as such even if both of them are 'arbitrary' this does not mean that they are equal to one another
1.10.3.1.1. Con: Law isn’t universal, it’s different depending on which country you are in, and in many countries, religion has greatly impacted the law of the land, even if places are becoming more secular, just as local culture has affected religious practice. So sometimes they are equal to each other.
1.10.3.1.2. Con: Law only connects those constrained by artificial boundaries of nations. Religion connects those across the entire world who believe the same way.
1.10.3.2. Pro: All things made by humankind is fallible as humankind is fallible. There have been many unjust laws in secular govt \(slavery, segregation, ect\) as there are unjust laws in religious organization.
1.10.4. Con: Allowing for some religious exemptions to the law is not the same as allowing all religious exemptions to all laws. [Employment Division v Smith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Employment_Division_v._Smith) allowed the government to deny unemployment benefits for someone who tested positive for peyote, which shows that religious exemptions do not lead to all laws becoming null and void.
1.10.5. Pro: Allowing people to violate law simply because they believe they don't have to follow it makes all law null and void.
1.10.5.1. Con: Having a valid defense for a law is not the same as violating it.
1.10.5.1.1. Pro: For example, someone who publicly damages the reputation of another person is not always guilty of defamation. A valid defense is that they were telling the truth.
1.10.5.2. Con: These exceptions are written in the law. They are the law. They are not a violation of the law.
1.10.6. Pro: Requesting exemption from a social responsibility, at best, puts an undue burden on the rest of society, and, at worst, actively poses a danger.
1.10.6.1. Pro: Religious exemptions, when health issues such as vaccines are concerned, are detrimental to the whole. One person's religious exemption isn't going to protect others if they contract an illness. The same goes for other aspects as well.
1.10.7. Pro: No religion should should stand above a law that has been put in place to control everyone.
1.10.7.1. Con: When laws start to condemn the religious, the country is likely in danger of commiting crimes against the innocent. [historycollection.co](https://historycollection.co/chilling-photographs-of-the-cambodian-genocide-and-pol-pots-killing-fields/)
1.10.7.2. Con: When laws are written with the intent to control people, then you have already violated the concepts of liberty and freedom.
1.10.8. Con: Laws were not created with everyone in mind. Therefore, they are inherently unequal judicators.
1.10.9. Con: Equally does not mean identically. The law takes into account many variables, and sincerely held religious belief is one variable that is appropriate to consider when crafting a law.
1.10.9.1. Con: Sincerely held religious believe is one variable that is appropriate to consider when passing judgement on a law, not crafting a law.
1.10.9.1.1. Con: Laws are created with the forethought of how judgement will be passed under the new legislation. This is why they are debated before being put in effect.
1.10.10. Con: The suggestion is not to allow people to violate the law. The suggestion is to craft a law that accounts for religion or conscience so that exercising one's natural rights doesn't require one to violate the law.
1.10.10.1. Con: People who believe in a certain set of ideas should not be exempted from the law in any scenario.
1.10.10.2. Pro: It's not a blank check payable by "religion". It's a carefully considered and deemed appropriate exemption that just happens to be based on religious factors.
1.10.11. Pro: Religious exemptions from laws can be harmful to people who don't share that religion's ideology.
1.10.11.1. Pro: There are religious exemptions to vaccine laws which put people who can't get vaccines at risk.
1.10.11.1.1. Pro: Religious exemptions to vaccinations in the military can put members of a troop in danger of foreign disease.
1.10.11.1.1.1. Con: Military vaccines can put others at risk. Smallpox vaccine, currently used by the military, has been known to spread smallpox to others. Smallpox does not exist in the wild, so it is questionable whether it is ethical to use smallpox vaccines at all.
1.10.11.1.1.2. Con: The key would be to educate the troops on the dangers, and allow them to make that decision for themselves. Making that decision is deeply personal.
1.10.11.1.1.2.1. Con: The military is not about personal freedom, but collective responsiblity. The collective responsibility of the unit is to achieve the goal stated by their orders, and allowing even one person to pose those dangers to the entire group is abhorent to the basis of military life.
1.10.11.2. Pro: Religious exemptions create the possibility of a multiclass system whereby some people can dodge civil responsibilities by claiming it offends their religious belief. There should be no exceptions for religious belief. This does not stop people believing whatever they wish to believe provided it does not impose a burden on another individual or society at large.
1.10.11.2.1. Con: Then the issue becomes, can govt force a person to act in ways that violate their religious or otherwise sincerely held beliefs?
1.10.11.3. Pro: There are no boundaries to religious belief, and therefore no boundaries to the exemptions they might ask for.  This could theoretically nullify all other laws.
1.10.11.3.1. Con: The laws so far nullified by religious freedom are limited in scope, and do not support the theoretical position that all laws will be nullified.
1.10.11.3.1.1. Con: Religious exceptions to vaccinations are already potentially deleterious enough and with broad enough scope in its effect to the public health that the fear that any laws could be nullified seems justified.
1.10.11.3.1.2. Con: Religion promotes the idea that God's laws are higher than those of mortals.
1.10.11.3.2. Con: There are no boundaries to exemptions that might be requested, but there could be boundaries to exemptions that would be granted. Therefore, the granting of any exemption does not entail, theoretically, the granting of all exemptions and the nullification of all other laws.
1.10.11.3.2.1. Con: Just because a law has not been contrary to the arbitrary dictates of a religion so far does not mean that it cannot become contrary to the arbitrary dictates of a religion at some point in the future.
1.10.11.3.3. Con: There are no real boundaries to laws passed by govts either. Basically every nation has, at one point at least, had laws allowing slavery, segregation, refusing to allow women basic liberties, ect
1.10.11.3.3.1. Con: Governments, particularly democratic governments, adapt to cultural norms. Religious dogma is typically static and therefore imposes itself on contemporary norms.
1.10.11.3.4. Con: There are clearly legal boundaries on religion, which is why Mormons can't practice [polygamy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mormonism_and_polygamy#U.S._federal_government_actions_against_polygamy).
1.10.11.3.4.1. Con: Mormons [do practice polygamy](https://www.sltrib.com/news/polygamy/2018/02/16/utah-arizona-towns-known-for-a-polygamous-sect-make-another-change-this-time-the-police-chief/d) in defiance of the law because they believe their religious law is above secular law. This reinforces the parent.
1.10.11.3.5. Con: There are no boundaries to any claims any group of citizens may form.
1.10.11.3.5.1. Pro: Example: [Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flying_Spaghetti_Monster) has permission in some countries to wear a spaghetti strainer on their head in their drivers license even though it is not considered a real religion in other countries.
1.10.11.3.5.2. Con: Many citizens claim to drive better when they are drunk. The boundaries to their claims are empirical evidence to the contrary. Laws should be made by universal standards and not something arbitrary like religion.
1.10.11.3.6. Pro: [Parody claims](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation-now/2015/11/16/church-flying-spaghetti-monster-massachusetts-religion/75862946/) have proven this to be true.
1.10.11.3.6.1. Con: Proving that a particular Department of motor vehicles will allow religious coverings does not prove the claim that “All laws are nullified”, only that religious beliefs allow head coverings in DMV photos.
1.10.11.4. Con: This is not an argument against the religious exemptions in principle and is instead noting that other factors ought to be weighed and perhaps curtail those exemptions.
1.10.11.5. Con: The degree to which a specific exemption might affect others can be measured against the individual's freedom and that exemption can be granted or denied on those grounds.
1.10.11.6. Pro: There should not be exceptions when the impact of the exception directly \(or unavoidably - e.g. employment\) and without consent impacts the rights or beliefs of others, as that would create an impossible paradox.
1.10.11.6.1. Con: There is an important distinction between the state infringing on a person's freedom of religion and an individual taking an action or position that might impact others based on their beliefs.

It would not be a paradox to prevent one but to allow or remain neutral on the other. \(Although we may want to disallow it on other grounds.\)
1.10.11.6.1.1. Con: The state remaining neutral on an issue is the same as supporting it, as non-state actors cannot legally defend themselves in most cases.  \(E.g.. Conversion therapy\)
1.10.11.6.1.1.1. Con: Even accepting, for the sake of discussion, that neutrality is equivalent to direct action, the actions are fundamentally different. Supporting an individual's right to choose \(or even parent's right to choose for their children\) by remaining neutral on that choice is not in conflict with proscribing the government from making that choice mandatory for all.
1.10.11.6.1.1.2. Con: Neutral non-interference is only equivalent to support if the question is within the purview of the authority in question. If the state cannot support or oppose religion. its non-interference cannot be seen as support.
1.11. Pro: For citizens in the US, this violates the [First Amendment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution): "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion".
1.11.1. Pro: This amendment is put in place because religions which would be placed above the law would have to be defined by legislators; ergo, the laws would give preferential treatment to the majority religion of the people in power.
1.11.2. Con: Allowing any religion to cite religious doctrine as a reason for exemption from the enforcement of a law does not establish that religion. On the contrary, such exemptions would, by virtue of the 1st amendment, be required to apply equally to all religions.
1.11.2.1. Pro: For instance, the conscientious objector exemption to the draft allows for Christians and Buddhists alike to register as pacifists.
1.11.3. Con: The First Amendment also states that Congress shall make no law prohibiting the free exercise of religion.
1.11.3.1. Con: Making no law establishing a religious institution comes first in the text, meaning it is deemed most important. Also, the rationale is that the amendment is to protect against discrimination from both religious institutions and the State.
1.12. Pro: Religion is arbitrary. What is acceptable by one religion may not be acceptable by another one and only laws made without using religion as it's basis can offer true freedom.
1.12.1. Pro: Believing that religious practices such as genital mutilation are right does not make them so.
1.12.2. Pro: Religion is something very individual. Two members of the same religion can have totally different beliefs, depending on how they interpret the teachings of their religion \(the Bible, Quran, etc\)
1.12.3. Con: The discussion is not about using religious as a basis for laws, it is about adding exemptions to laws based on other considerations so they do not infringe on religious belief or conscience.

This is a reasonable general rule, with the actual exemptions considered on a case by case basis.
1.12.3.1. Con: Religion which is something personal should not have an effect on something unanimous like the law.
1.12.4. Con: It depends on the law.  If the law is so restrictive that religions should have to have exemptions to have free practice \(which is a true freedom\), then your law \(as is this one\) should not exist.  The only reason there should be laws which restrict freedom of religion is when they kill, maim, or otherwise take liberties away from observers or others without their consent.
1.12.5. Pro: If religious exemptions were allowed, people could arbitrarily create religions that enable them to avoid laws they don't like.
1.12.5.1. Pro: [Pastafarianism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flying_Spaghetti_Monster) \(even if it has no serious ambitions as a religion\) has been created to illustrate just this point.
1.12.5.2. Pro: [Henry VIII of England](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henrique_VIII_de_Inglaterra) during the Renaissance created the [Anglican Church](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anglicanism), which is overall very similar to the [Catholic Church](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catholic_Church), except, by creating this religion he no longer had to serve the Catholics, and his religion allowed divorcing; meaning he could divorce his woman, plea earlier denied by the Pope. This exemplifies how religions can be created in the purpose of avoiding one's rule, in the discussion's case, the state's.
1.12.5.2.1. Con: This isn't a valid example. The power of the individual citizen to influence the law is significantly less than the ability of a monarch, and the organizing power to form a religion that is likely to be recognized by any religious exemption process in modern times would be more difficult.
1.12.5.3. Con: The exemption process involves taking multiple factors into account before approval and as currently implemented does take steps to prevent these types of abuses.
1.12.5.3.1. Con: In reality religious exemption laws only exist in the United States and the only factor that is seemed to be taken into account is whether the faith based upon which one wishes to discriminate another is Christianity. There is not one discrimination law made for atheists, Muslims or anyone other than a Christian.
1.13. Pro: -> See 1.3.3.1.
1.14. Con: Adherence to the law in secular governments should be dictated by secular ideals.
1.14.1. Pro: Religious exemptions should be written into a law if appropriate. If such action is deemed inappropriate then no one should be exempt.
1.14.2. Con: If the action is not deemed inappropriate, then its legality should not be restricted to those of certain religious faiths. It should instead be legal for everyone.
1.14.2.1. Con: Religions are uniquely exempt from discrimination laws because they would contradict their sacred tradition otherwise.
1.14.2.1.1. Pro: For example, women would be able to become ordained priests, and churches would be forced to observe same-sex marriages.
1.15. Con: Freedom of religion and conscience is a fundamental human right which no ruler, representative or monarch, can abrogate.
1.15.1. Con: Citizen X holds the sincere belief that citizen Y must be killed in accordance to his religion, the law cannot accept this and MUST prevent X from acting on his beliefs and is perfectly justified in forcing them to act in violation of those sincerely held beliefs.
1.15.1.1. Pro: If one religion can circumvent laws they cannot argue if an opposite religion where to do the same in opposing terms.
1.15.2. Con: What we have here is a collision between 2 different ethical systems \(civic and religious\). Since every human is part of the civic system but not part of every religious systems, the civic system must prevail.
1.15.2.1. Pro: In a free democratic society there are opportunities for legal civil protest. Should there come a time when a person has to decide what master they serve and when the law delivers injustice then vocal protest can be called upon. [sojo.net](https://sojo.net/articles/18-arrested-anti-death-penalty-protest)
1.15.2.2. Con: Religious belief in this context includes the lack of any or all faith. Therefore, everyone is part of some religious group or a religious non-group.
1.15.3. Pro: By definition, if the law is not compatible with religious requirements and requires an exemption, absent that exemption the law would be abrogating the person's freedom of religion/conscience, either by preventing them from acting on their beliefs or forcing them to act in violation of them.
1.15.3.1. Con: One person nor their views cannot outweigh another's, let alone society as a whole. If something is deemed bad for society as a whole, it cannot be deemed acceptable for a few, based off opinion alone.
1.15.4. Con: This universal human right is about everyone having the freedom to practice whatever religion they want; it's not about religion being above the law.
1.15.4.1. Pro: The liberal principal of tolerance is relevant here, society and the government should tolerate everyone’s choices to allow them freedom as long as it does not restrict the freedom of others.
1.16. Con: This makes it possible for the government to harass certain religions.
1.16.1. Con: The government's focus is not to harass people of a particular religious faith, but to make sure everyone is in compliance with certain rules and regulations.
1.16.2. Con: Harassment is very subjective and the accusations of harassment can be used as a weapon against people with different beliefs.
1.16.3. Pro: Muslim women must remove their hijab for their driver's license.
1.16.3.1. Pro: A Muslim woman going out in public without her hijab goes against her religion. She should not be required to adhere to this.
1.16.3.1.1. Con: Religion does not supersede the law.
1.16.3.2. Con: This is not harassment, but rather a requirement for overall public safety.
1.16.3.2.1. Con: If identification is the issue, there are other methods of identification available.
1.16.3.2.2. Pro: The picture on a license has to show all of a person's face and hair so they can be fully identifiable.
1.16.4. Pro: This may open the door for other religious exemptions to be denounced.
1.16.4.1. Con: Religious exemptions at their core represent the idea that one's beliefs gives them different rights than someone with another set of ideas. This should be denounced