Discussion Name: Should the price of services and goods ever be controlled?

1. Price controls are a benefit to society.
1.1. Pro: Price controls \(e.g. through government subsidies\) can ensure affordability of goods \(e.g. drugs to treat cancer or other disease\) that would otherwise be too expensive for most people.
1.1.1. Con: Price controls distort markets and might render goods more expensive than they would otherwise be. In the case of subsidies such as the above mentioned, the government provides a monopoly to the subsidized pharmaceutical company which in turn can demand more protections and regulation to keep other producers out and thus maintain prices excessively higher.
1.2. Pro: Price controls \(e.g.through taxation\) can discourage consumers purchasing unhealthy goods \(e.g. cigarettes\) and contribute to a healthier society.
1.2.1. Con: Taxation of a good can produce black markets where consumers can purchase goods smuggled from other countries or illicit producers.
1.3. Con: People have the right to do as they will with their own property, including to sell it at whatever price they choose.
1.3.1. Pro: For someone who needs to subsist selling a product, if the price of the product is capped at a lower price than it would otherwise sell for, amounts to a sort of slavery.
1.3.2. Con: When said product or property is necessary for the survival of someone \(eg. surgical procedure or medicine\), the need for a person's survival trumps the right to sell a product at a market price.
1.3.2.1. Con: Even if the positive right to life supersedes the negative right of private property, there is no reason why the burden of this must fall on whoever happens to own a good that is necessary to survival.
1.3.3. Con: Once this freedom interferes with the greater good of society, it is legitimate to restrict it, just as is common in many other areas.
1.4. Pro: If you have a set price for goods, it gives smaller companies a chance to compete against bigger companies. If a big company cannot sell its supplies any lower than a local company, a consumer is just as likely to buy from either of them
1.4.1. Con: That, however is not necessarily helpful to the consumer who would benefit from lower prices.
1.4.2. Con: If a larger company has an advantage in efficiency that would allow it to sell at a lower price for a profit, having to sell at a higher minimum price will permit it a larger profit margin, so it will still have an advantage over the smaller companies.
1.5. Pro: Price controls may be beneficial to citizens in periods of rapid price increase/decrease if applied to certain key sectors.
1.5.1. Con: But if prices are volatile, then incentive for supply might vary too. Therefore it would seem necessary to also control supply in order to prevent shortages or "dumping".
1.6. Con: Price controls create black markets.
1.6.1. Pro: Black markets oftentimes operate outside of regulatory frameworks, for example regarding products standards. This makes them potentially dangerous for customers.
1.6.2. Con: Black markets can be kept under control through strict law enforcement.
1.7. Pro: Prices need to be controlled in order to ensure consumers and producers are treated fairly.
1.7.1. Pro: Price controls might discourage monopolists from exploiting their position and engaging in unethical practices in order to control prices themselves.
1.7.1.1. Con: In this case, the problem should be sought elsewhere: in the existence of monopolies. Price controls merely treat a symptom of this problem.
1.7.2. Con: Fairness is not well-defined.
1.7.3. Pro: Price controls protect producers from unscrupulous competitors.
1.8. Con: Allowing for prices to be determined by supply and demand can increase the ability of a society, group or individual to discover where they have comparative advantage thus allowing for better allocation of time and resources.
1.8.1. Pro: Competition benefits the consumer who in turn has more purchasing power to invest in other new services and goods.
1.8.1.1. Con: There are plenty of cases in which unregulated competition does not benefit consumers but produces low quality.
1.8.1.2. Con: Competition can also lead to higher prices, thus harming consumers.
1.8.1.3. Con: Competition can lead to poorer standards of production and unfair treatment of workers
1.8.1.3.1. Con: Competition often urges companies to adopt great standards of production. It helps to create more value, and they must create more value than competitors in order to get marketshare.
1.8.1.3.2. Con: Price controls do not necessarily lead to better working conditions.
1.8.2. Con: When certain businesses get monopoly on a service or product, people are left with the option of choosing their product or not getting that type of product at all. This gives such businesses too much leverage to put unreasonably high prices on products or services that people cannot afford to go without.
1.8.3. Pro: Price controls can exacerbate demand and deter production.