Discussion Name: Should Profanity be Permitted in Debate?

1. Profanity Should be Permitted in Debate
1.1. Con: Cursing is evidence of a poor vocabulary, and is used as a crutch. People should be encouraged to find new words to express themselves, rather than relying on a handful of old ones.
1.1.1. Con: Intelligent people are [more likely to swear](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/swearing-study-intelligent-intelligence-university-of-rochester-a7916516.html); intelligent debates may therefore be characterised by more cursing.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Swearing allows for more [creativity](https://digitalmarketingmagazine.co.uk/digital-marketing-features/does-swearing-in-the-office-make-you-more-creative-fck-maybe/3734) in discourse.
1.1.2. Con: [This is untrue](https://www.sciencealert.com/people-who-swearing-cursing-rude-words-better-vocabulary-science); those who swear very often have larger vocabularies than those who refrain from swearing.
1.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.
1.3. Con: Profanity distracts from the core argument.
1.3.1. Con: That some argumentation techniques are ineffective is no reason to ban them from the debate.
1.3.2. Con: It is a bold claim that this would be true universally. In context, swearing could provide clarity to a subject.
1.3.2.1. Pro: If we were to have a debate about the cleanliness of a bathroom, for example, an argument may be more clear if one uses the properly grotesque words to describe state of said bathroom, and the truly horrendous task of its maintenance. This communicates an important factor to be considered in this debate.
1.3.3. Pro: Profanity tends to invoke or display emotion towards the topic being discussed, either for or against. The problem lies in the emotional IQ and life experiences of the individual using and the individual\(s\) receiving it. Strangers cannot determine what the exact reaction for profanity will be.
1.4. Pro: When engaged in debate, one often needs to provide evidence. Such evidence may include quoting other individuals. Those quotes may contain profanity, which in turn may be the point of quoting them. Thus, forcing omission of profanity may be directly detrimental to debate.
1.4.1. Con: Existing decency rules on media platforms may limit the reach of otherwise erudite debate if profanity is used.
1.4.2. Con: One may replace all but the first letters of the curse words with dashes or asterisks and produce the same effect.
1.5. Pro: Profanity should be permitted in debate just as all speech should be permitted in a debate.
1.5.1. Con: However, the purpose of debate is to persuade an audience. Even though profanity should be permitted in a debate, its use \(or abuse\) may not be the most effective means to achieve persuasion.
1.5.1.1. Con: In which case, profanity should be considered on a case-by-case basis, with certain debates containing more profanity than others.
1.5.2. Con: Profanity is beyond the debates limit. Respect should always be at the center in all cases/situations even debates.
1.6. Con: Debate should be devoid of undue emotion. The visceral reactions to these words do not enhance human interaction, but rather devolve them.
1.6.1. Con: Debate is often heated, and often means a lot to people; it would be unreasonable to stop people emoting on matters than mean a lot to them.
1.6.2. Pro: Emotions can lead to counter-emotions. This distracts from the argument at hand.
1.6.2.1. Con: This rests on the premise that constructive argument and emotion are mutually exclusive, which is arguably untrue.
1.6.2.2. Con: Depending on the debate, seeing emotions and counter emotions, as well as how each are handled, may be useful to the audience because they indicate the debaters' emotional intelligence.
1.6.3. Con: There is no reason to have debates devoid of emotion. The assumption that emotion, and emotive phrases, devolve arguments is just that: an assumption.
1.6.4. Pro: Though arbitrary, obeying rules regarding "acceptable" speech limits demonstrate that the speaker is self-aware and capable of restraint. These are qualities which lend credibility to the speaker.
1.6.5. Con: Swearing may help quickly vent emotional pressure, leading to better quality of arguments.
1.6.5.1. Con: Swear words said for this purpose instead of for rhetorical effect could be quietly said aside instead of being said in the debate. This would demonstrate self-restraint.
1.6.5.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.4.
1.6.6. Con: Debates are about things that affect us as people. This means that to fully communicate important concepts to others means that the emotions driven by the things over which we debate must be communicated as well. Most often, the words society bans are the ones most effective at communicating strong emotion. Banning these words for this reason does not enhance debate, but sterilizes it.
1.6.6.1. Pro: [Pathos](http://www.forensicscommunity.com/publicforum/pathos) \(appeal to emotion\) is often important when making arguments.
1.6.7. Con: Excluding profanity in debate would allow those who prefer other means of invoking emotions through their arguments to gain an unfair advantage.
1.6.7.1. Pro: Many people use tone of voice and body language to invoke feelings in a debate. People who're less competent at this are therefore unfairly punished.
1.6.8. Pro: Cursing is rude. Debate should be kept civil.
1.7. Pro: In a limited fashion, it should be allowed in debate, especially if it's a slip of the tongue. More often then not, that tends to happen by mistake rather than to make a point.
1.7.1. Con: It is better to discourage such errors through penalties instead of tolerating them, because that will contribute to better habits in future debaters.
1.8. Con: If the only counter to an idea is to use profanity then there is no need for it to be part of the debate \(as no points are being made by the person swearing\).
1.8.1. Con: Using profanity makes it clear to the audience that you lack arguments, and it is a good thing that they understand that.
1.8.1.1. Con: Audiences may find an argument more powerful or a good substitute for arguments \(because profanity can generate strong reactions\), so there is no guarantee of such an understanding.
1.8.2. Pro: Curse words are gratuitous. Arguments ought to be concise.
1.9. Pro: A society can't claim to support free speech while also literally banning the use of certain words in discussions about it.
1.9.1. Pro: Limiting your words to only those considered "decent" or "proper" has no basis in logic, but rather is a statement of conformity to tradition and authoritarianism.
1.9.2. Con: Society should not support absolute free speech.
1.9.2.1. Pro: Karl Popper's [paradox of tolerance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance) states that if a society is tolerant without limit, its ability to be tolerant will eventually be seized or destroyed by the intolerant.
1.10. Con: Cursing [turns people off](https://michaelhyatt.com/profanity/), and may limit the number of people willing to participate in a debate.
1.10.1. Pro: Cursing is offensive to people. Words are powerful and people could internalize it when cursed at.
1.10.2. Con: Some people like cursewords and feel that they can relate more to people using them. These people will become more likely to participate in debates as a result.
1.10.3. Con: You might not care about persuading people who get turned off by profanity in a conversation. If they are easily offended by profanity, they might also not be comfortable with deep or serious topics in the first place.
1.10.4. Pro: [Older people](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/jan/15/toughen-up-senior-snowflakes-swearing-at-work-is-good-for-us) who are less accustomed to liberal use of profanity may be dissuaded from engaging in otherwise perfectly reasonable debates.