Discussion Name: Should the legal voting age in the USA be lowered to 16 provided that the voter is attending school?

1. The legal voting age in the USA should be lowered to 16, provided that the voter is attending school.
1.1. Pro: The world is changing quickly. Giving agency to younger people with fresher perspectives could help society respond to changes faster.
1.2. Pro: The age of 16 is a high enough age for individuals to have the necessary capacity to vote meaningfully.
1.2.1. Con: The right to vote is not ultimately predicated on the 'capacity to vote' It is predicated on a voter being a Citizen. 'Capacity' or lack thereof, is used to disqualify otherwise qualified voters, not to qualify otherwise unqualified voters.
1.2.2. Pro: At age 16, most individuals are required to consider their prospective future.
1.2.3. Pro: At 16, one is usually expected to be able to tackle increasingly complex problems.
1.2.4. Pro: One is able to do "adult" things at the age of 16 like driving and working.
1.2.4.1. Con: We allow 16 year olds to do only some adult things. Even driving and work are generally limited.
1.2.4.1.1. Pro: Both are typically restricted by hours and work that is considered dangerous is often prohibited. We also do not allow them to enter into contracts of any kind.
1.2.4.1.1.1. Con: Actually, individuals under the age of 18 [can enter into most kinds of contracts](https://www.upcounsel.com/can-a-minor-enter-into-a-legal-contract).
1.2.4.1.1.2. Con: Hours restrictions [generally vary by state](https://www.dol.gov/whd/state/nonfarm.htm), and most limitations are largely in consideration of academic obligations.
1.2.4.1.2. Pro: They are not considered fully adult in any area of life and, with the exception of violent crime in many states, are not held accountable to adult standards of behavior.
1.2.4.1.2.1. Con: On the contrary, there are many areas of life in which 16-year-olds are considered fully adult or held accountable to adult standards of behavior.
1.2.4.1.2.1.1. Pro: In tort law, there are numerous occasions, such as underage driving, where minors are held to the same standard of conduct as adults.
1.2.4.1.2.1.2. Pro: In most jurisdictions, [a minor can be emancipated at the age of 16 \(with the exception of CA, which allows minors to be emancipated at the age of 14\).](https://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/emancipation-of-minors-32237.html)
1.2.5. Con: Teenagers are not expected to take financial or economical decisions and worry about health insurance or tax payment, for instance. This lack of insight results in a lack of interest when it comes to political activity.
1.2.5.1. Con: Lack of interest could also be said of adults. According to [cnn.com](https://www.cnn.com/2016/11/11/politics/popular-vote-turnout-2016/index.html), only ~55% of eligible voters voted in the 2016 election.
1.2.6. Pro: Teens should be empowered to vote for issues that affect them specifically, for example gun violence in schools or education policy.
1.2.7. Con: Politics is so complicated that even some adults do not have the ability to choose. In fact, before voting for a candidate, a person has to consider more than just the party this person represents. Politics is a practical art. Every case is different.
1.2.7.1. Con: Unless one argues that democratic power should be limited even regarding adults, then the assertion that politics is so complicated that even adult ability to choose candidates is impaired only means that mental capacity is irrelevant. Thus, alleged lack thereof would not be reason to deny 16-year-old individuals the right to vote in elections.
1.2.7.2. Con: This suggest an issue with education itself, not with 16-year-old individuals voting.
1.3. Con: Voting is a right, not a privilege. Restricting it to only 16-year-olds in school is an undue restriction on other 16-year-olds constitutional right to vote.
1.3.1. Con: The current right to vote is not extended to any 16-year-old. Intentional steps are being taken to extend that right to a certain subset of 16-year-olds. If other subsets deserve the right to vote as well, the burden of proof rests on proving why they do deserve it, not simply that they don't not deserve it.
1.4. Con: Younger people do not contribute to the state as much as adults or people above the age of majority.
1.4.1. Con: These attributes are not requirements to vote for any individual.
1.4.2. Con: Individuals at age 16 become eligible to pay at least some tax because they are legally employable.
1.4.3. Con: It is not good policy, and is likely unconstitutional, to require land ownership, substantial economic contribution, investment possession, or significant tax payment to vote.
1.4.3.1. Pro: Contribution and ownership are not metrics by which we judge whether people should have the right to vote or not. For example, adults who do not own homes or significantly contribute to the economy are allowed to vote.
1.4.3.2. Con: The backbone of this statement and its parent statement is the concept that participants in democracy have "skin in the game." Children have very little TANGIBLE skin in the outcome of elections. The participation of their parents, who ostensibly have their children's interest in mind when they vote, give the children an appropriate voice in the government.
1.4.3.2.1. Con: Minors have a tangible interest in who runs the world they have to live in for the rest of their lives.
1.4.3.3. Pro: [The 24th Amendment](https://constitutioncenter.org/interactive-constitution/amendments/amendment-xxiv) specifically prohibits denying citizens the right to vote "by reason of failure to pay poll tax or other tax."
1.4.3.4. Pro: Home ownership ranges greatly, but [overall home-ownership rates](https://www.businessinsider.com/homeownership-rate-state-map-2017-7) suggest that returning to a land ownership requirement would disenfranchise substantial numbers of potential or actual voters.
1.4.4. Pro: Voting has always been tied to having a certain responsibility to the state/to the government. Unless other aspects to the age of majority and its rights are changed to 16 \(the ability to contribute to/have full rights from the state\) we are undermining the value of the vote.
1.4.4.1. Con: Just because something has always been a certain way is not a reason to continue in that way.
1.4.4.1.1. Con: This statement may be made based on a false supposition: That the voting age is based upon some time honored tradition. It is not. It is generally felt by doctors, judges, and many other learned professionals that people have achieved a certain level of maturity, and are able to think, reason, and make rational choices in most cases by the age of 18.
1.4.4.2. Con: The value of the vote lies not in responsibility to the state/government, but in putting forth the voices of and accounting for the needs and wants of the people.
1.4.4.3. Pro: Children under the age of 18 are not permitted to participate as combatants in warfare per United Nations. Children under 18 do not have the same responsibilities and obligations to the nation as those over 18. The premise for lowering the voting age to 18 was that young men were dying in Vietnam but had no voice in the election process. The UN recognizes that children cannot make rational adult decisions in war or peace. [childrenandarmedconflict.un.org](https://childrenandarmedconflict.un.org/six-grave-violations/child-soldiers/)
1.4.4.4. Pro: The age of majority \(18 in almost all states\) is the age at which you are legally accountable for your actions as an adult of sound mind and body. Infractions of the law by people under the age of majority are handled by juvenile justice systems in most states, where records are expunged at the age of majority. Except the most heinous of crimes, children do not suffer the justice system as adults and are treated as children. Incapable of making independent adult decisions.
1.4.5. Pro: Teens do not own as much land and do not pay as much taxes as adults.
1.4.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.3.
1.5. Con: Changes to voting laws usually cause a brief period of economic and political instability.
1.5.1. Con: Temporary instability is an acceptable risk compared to the long-term benefits.
1.6. Con: Younger people are not capable of voting and therefore, do not deserve the right to vote.
1.6.1. Con: Rights are not based on ability. They are based on the individual being an individual.
1.6.2. Pro: While every human matures at a different rate, at 16, most do not yet consider the long-term ramifications of their actions or how their decisions impact others.
1.6.2.1. Con: Teenagers are wary of and seeking to improve upon [humanity's wellbeing in terms of climate change](https://www.ourchildrenstrust.org/juliana-v-us), indicating that teenagers do consider the long term ramifications of not only their actions, but those of others.
1.6.3. Con: Most 16-year-olds can read and check boxes or communicate which boxes they want checked.
1.6.4. Pro: Younger people are more easily manipulated by peers, teachers and \(perhaps most worryingly\) parents.
1.6.4.1. Con: Adults are also easily manipulated.
1.6.4.1.1. Pro: Adults are susceptible to propaganda.
1.6.4.1.1.1. Pro: [Anti-Japanese propaganda](https://artifactsjournal.missouri.edu/2012/03/wwii-propaganda-the-influence-of-racism/) in the United States created a bedrock of anti-Japanese sentiment preceding and during World War II, resulting in grown adults turning away Japanese neighbors.
1.6.4.2. Con: Pressure from other individuals in your life is an acceptable risk for participation in the political system.
1.6.5. Pro: Younger people don't have enough life experience to be able to form complex opinions around politics.
1.6.5.1. Con: There is little difference in life experience between the age of 16 and the age of 18.
1.6.5.1.1. Pro: A couple of years, unless truly dramatic, will not bear very many experiences from which a key lesson is derived.
1.6.5.1.2. Pro: Many experiences that one might have at the age of 18 are also experiences one has or is likely to have by the age of 16.
1.6.5.2. Con: That lack of experience also means that younger people can introduce a fresh perspective into the political system.
1.6.5.3. Con: Experience is not necessarily a good thing as it can shut people down from considering evidence and arguments that do not fit in with their already established world view. Older people may deny convincing arguments simply because of experience pushing them to go with their gut instead.
1.6.6. Con: The age of 16, however, is often considered an appropriate threshold age for considering someone "[capable of voting.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voting_age#Debate_on_lowering_the_voting_age_to_16)"
1.6.7. Con: Essentially all arguments against allowing 16-year-olds to [vote](http://www.cnn.com/2014/09/19/opinion/brennan-voting-age/index.html) apply with equal force to a majority of the voting-age public. Voters are overwhelmingly ignorant on topics of politics, economics, and science, yet they are allowed to cast ballots that affect all of these things.
1.6.7.1. Con: The fact that voting rights are already extended to a large set of people arguably unworthy of them doesn't in any way justify any further extension of such rights to even more unworthy citizens.
1.6.8. Con: Teachers could help younger people learn to register to vote and how to find and study manifestos and certain parties' political platforms making it more likely these people will make informed voting choices in the future
1.6.8.1. Con: Is the teacher going to fill out your ballot for you as well? Handling your own responsibilities is a very strong indicator that one is ready to take part in the representative democracy. Aside from reading the directions, or asking a poll worker to clarify those directions, a person who is responsible enough to participate should require little "help" if any.
1.6.9. Con: Young people have the right to make decisions about policies that affect them directly; for example, gun violence in schools or education policy.
1.6.9.1. Pro: Teens, for example, are leading the gun rights conversation following the [Parkland shooting](http://time.com/longform/never-again-movement/) at a Florida high school.
1.7. Pro: Getting people involved in politics earlier could improve future turnout and lead to a more representative democracy.
1.7.1. Con: It is possible to involve young people in politics without the need to grant them the right to vote.
1.7.2. Pro: They will develop a habit of political participation at a stage where such habits are more easily cemented.
1.7.3. Pro: More voters means better representation, so artificially improving turnout by letting younger people vote could lead to a stronger democracy.
1.8. Pro: Younger people will feel more a part of the political system, meaning they will pay closer attention.
1.8.1. Pro: Engagement with politics at an early age may also motivate young people to become party members and perhaps create future leaders.
1.8.2. Con: Consideration of younger peoples feelings of inclusion is irrelevant to whether they possess the necessary reasoning to make a meaningful decision when casting a ballot.
1.8.3. Pro: Because they can actually act on that knowledge, that knowledge becomes more important to them- it's something they will "actually use in real life."
1.8.4. Con: Younger people are already able to participate in the political system. They could sign petitions or protest.
1.9. Con: Attending school should not be a pre-requisite for the right to vote.
1.9.1. Pro: School attendance is not a pre-requisite to vote for any other demographic of the US citizenry.
1.9.2. Pro: Voting at a young age is already a no-no, but requiring the voters to be in school opens them to even more manipulation by the authority figures around them.
1.10. Pro: The US government is not sufficiently responsive to the needs of US citizens under 18 years old - lowering the voting age to 16 will mitigate this problem.
1.10.1. Con: There is no evidence to suggest that the proposed change will create the proposed outcome.
1.10.2. Pro: The US government is failing to protect American teenagers from school shootings.
1.10.3. Pro: The US government is failing to protect young people from outrageously burdensome college debt.
1.10.3.1. Con: The Federal Government has no duty to protect individuals or classes of people from freely assuming "outrageously burdensome college debt".
1.10.3.1.1. Con: Given that an enormous portion of student debt is sourced from [federal loans](https://studentloanhero.com/student-loan-debt-statistics/), it isn't hard to see why it would have a duty to protect people from freely assuming outrageously burdensome debt.
1.10.3.1.2. Con: A duty can be created.
1.10.3.1.2.1. Con: And a steam powered space ship can be created, that doesn't mean it's the wisest thing to do.
1.10.3.1.3. Con: Even if it does not have a duty, it would be in the federal government's interest \(and in that of the general public\) to protect these individuals.
1.10.3.2. Con: 16 and 17 year olds are [not legally permitted](https://studentloanhero.com/featured/private-student-loans-common-requirements-getting/) to enter into contractual debt as they aren't at the age of majority.
1.10.3.3. Con: The poor decision making that led to them being burdened by outrageous debt is a good indication that they are not ready to make good decisions about who should represent them in government.
1.10.3.3.1. Con: It's easy to make poor decisions when entities entrusted with informing you fail to do so. Thus, that young people find themselves burdened by outrageous debt is not a sign of readiness, but of information asymmetry.
1.10.3.3.1.1. Con: Those same entities will likely be informing their decision making on voting as well, would it not? It is not logical to assume that they will suddenly develop the insight to make wise decisions in the voting booth when they didn't make wise decisions in the loan office.
1.10.4. Pro: The US government is not responding to climate change with sufficient vigor, relative to the threat it poses to citizens currently under 18 years old.
1.10.4.1. Pro: [A collection of individuals under 18 are currently engaged in litigation regarding this precise issue.](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/kids-climate-change-lawsuit-can-proceed-judge-rules-n920476)
1.10.4.1.1. Con: The existence of a law suit by children against the government is not evidence that their case has merit. Once they have a verdict in such a case \(and there are a number of them out there\) then you could possibly use it as an argument.
1.10.4.1.2. Con: It is likely that these children are being exploited by activists, [parents](https://nypost.com/2019/02/25/making-kids-lecture-on-climate-change-is-child-abuse/), and/or [lawyers](https://climatechangedispatch.com/docs-youth-climate-protest-exploitation/).