Discussion Name: The Libertarian Solution: Can People Govern Themselves?

1. The government should be involved in the lives of its citizens as little as possible.
1.1. Con: A government too small would lead to anarchy.
1.1.1. Pro: It would fall apart because the government couldn't protect the people.
1.1.1.1. Con: The government must only be small in its power over individual liberty; the small government may still have a large military and police presence that can prevent the devolution to anarchy.
1.1.1.2. Con: Even if government didn't protect people, there could be companies which offer protection. However, by being paid voluntarily, it'd actually require them to be more helpful and effective rather than jailing people for smoking weed. Also under capitalism and by being private, they'd be cheaper.
1.1.2. Con: Small government is still government, and as long as it maintains its sovereignty, it will continue to be a government. The government must have only enough power to enforce its own sovereignty.
1.1.2.1. Pro: The only issue is to prevent it from getting too big, as governments have a tendency only to [grow](https://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2015/06/16/the_us_is_defined_by_expanding_government_retreating_economy_101708.html), not to shrink.
1.1.2.2. Pro: The government only has to ensure it has the power to prevent interference with freedom and ensure individuals start with close to the same opportunities, thus ensuring freedom of choice.
1.1.3. Con: A government too small would lead to a form of anarchism that would be beneficial in the long run. By creating direct communal rule or governance, the reach of the federal or central government is very limited and the communities can take care of their own matters in their own way. An example of that is the anarchist movement in the Spanish civil war \(1936-1939\).
1.1.3.1. Con: The Spanish civil war killed a half-million people and led to a totalitarian dictatorship
1.1.4. Pro: A government that dissolved its monopoly on the use of force would likely devolve into anarchy.
1.1.4.1. Pro: Government needs only to be in control of the army and the police to prevent anarchy.
1.1.4.2. Con: Anarchy can be working system as well. Lack of government doesn't have to be bad thing, any service government offers can also be offered by free market. General rule is that free market is also more effective and cheaper than the government.
1.1.5. Con: There is no indication suggesting anarchy is wrong.
1.1.5.1. Pro: -> See discussion #6144: Anarchy is the only ethical system of society.
1.1.5.2. Con: Anarchy is deeply individualistic, therefore it cannot be good for community.
1.1.5.2.1. Con: Anarchy simply means lack of hierarchies. Anarchist societies are usually based on improving the whole community. See [Zapatista declaration](https://enlacezapatista.ezln.org.mx/sdsl-en/) and[Rojava contract](https://mesopotamia.coop/the-co-operative-contract-of-the-democratic-federation-of-northern-syria/).
1.2. Pro: The intended role of the government is protection, not social intervention.
1.2.1. Pro: State and local governments were meant to create the laws of the land. Federal government was [never to supercede](http://eyler.freeservers.com/JeffPers/jefpco14.htm) state/local governments.
1.2.1.1. Con: This argument relies on the authority of past framers of American law - it is thus an example of the fallacy of appeal to authority. The fact that these men said something does not make it true or right.
1.2.1.1.1. Con: Given the nation's quick rise to power during its early years, it would be logical to assert that the legislative ideologies implemented by the founding fathers were a driving factor in this growth, and that we should return to them.
1.2.1.1.1.1. Con: That a legislative ideology helps a country rise to power does not make it morally correct or politically legitimate.
1.2.1.1.1.2. Con: The legislative ideology of the founding fathers was one of many different factors, and functioned as a factor at the time of the founding of the nation. It is not clear the strength of its impact relative to other factors, nor is it clear that it could function as a driving factor to growth in the modern era.
1.2.1.1.1.2.1. Con: The fact that the legislative ideology didn't impede the rapid growth of the nation similarly indicates that it is a valid ideology. Growth typically happens independent of ideology, but incorrect ideology can very easily impede or even destroy past growth. See the [fall of Venezuela](https://www.pri.org/stories/2015-03-02/timeline-venezuelas-slide-toward-disaster).
1.2.2. Pro: Excessive government involvement with personal matters will tend towards an authoritarian state, where eventually all personal matters are controlled by the government.
1.2.2.1. Con: A constitution and governmental systems can be designed to make it extremely difficult for any one individual or group to hold a monopoly on power and/or change the constitution to their will against the will of the people.
1.2.2.1.1. Con: Nonetheless, a constitution and any government can be designed in a very minimalistic way in order to only guarantee that no monopoly of power exists, and interference with individual freedom is kept to a minimum.
1.2.2.2. Pro: There are [many examples](https://www.historyguy.com/dictators_and_tyrants.htm) of government taking too much power throughout history, usually with the rise of a dictator.
1.2.2.2.1. Pro: Even democracy can be manipulated to grant despots more power - [Adolf Hitler was elected democratically.](https://m.dailykos.com/stories/2013/7/5/1221459/-Democratically-Elected-Despots)
1.2.2.2.1.1. Con: There are, by far, more countries that were democratic and stayed that way than countries that were democratic and became authoritarian\\totalitarian.
1.2.2.3. Pro: The desire to take power over others is a very common human trait.
1.2.2.3.1. Con: If taking power over others is part of human nature, minimizing a governments ability to have more power is irrelevant since there are other mechanisms for tyranny. Corporate oligarchy for example. A government that is run by its subjects is at least able to be changed by the people.
1.2.2.3.1.1. Con: Laws may be put in place to prevent any kind of tyranny that may infringe upon the rights of an individual within a libertarian society. Corporations are not protected under the same rights that individuals are.
1.2.2.3.1.1.1. Con: With minimalistic government there won't be enough resources to enforce these laws
1.2.2.3.1.1.1.1. Con: The amount of power a government has over its people does not determine how many resources it has. America has far more resources than Cuba, but Cuba has far more control over its people.
1.2.2.3.1.1.2. Con: Corporations with vast amounts of resources and fierce legal departments can find ways to bypass laws so quickly that legislation won't be able to keep pace
1.2.2.3.1.1.2.1. Con: Not all laws have loopholes.
1.2.2.3.1.1.3. Con: Some libertarians believe that government interference with businesses are an over-reach of government powers.
1.2.2.3.1.1.3.1. Pro: According to Libertarian author [Phillip Mirowski](https://books.google.com/books?id=kSyzcrfecuwC&printsec=frontcover&dq=The+Road+to+Mont+Pelerin&source=bl&ots=SiJlDMWnzy&sig=flLi7pdlwqloSkVdcA2Fx8He-9o&hl=en&ei=saZ4TKStCsijnQeQj_CVCw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CCYQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q=The%20Road%20to%20Mont%20Pelerin&f=false), monopolies are not bad for democracy, however anti-trust laws are. Proposing limits on corporate power is not a libertarian principal.
1.2.2.3.1.1.3.2. Con: The government does not have to interfere with business to protect individual liberty. There would be laws preventing businesses from taking advantage of individuals, but they may otherwise function however they like.
1.2.2.3.1.1.3.2.1. Con: Since the laws stem from and are enforced by the government, this amounts to government interference.
1.2.2.3.1.1.3.2.1.1. Con: Some laws are necessary, even in a libertarian society. There must be laws against murder, theft, and even corporate corruption. Laws are the only thing separating libertarianism from anarchy.
1.2.2.4. Con: Excessive government involvement w/ personal matters is the definition of an 'Authoritarian State'. That doesn't mean that any country that has some involvement in personal matters would tend to become authoritarian.
1.2.2.5. Con: It is not clear that personal matters being controlled by the government is necessarily a bad thing. Major philosophers have seen this as the basis for utopia - Plato and Sir Thomas More, for example. Government control over personal matters could lead to greater social harmony, as people would have clear guidelines to follow in their personal lives.
1.2.2.5.1. Con: Such an authoritarian utopia has never succeeded, as people not allowed basic freedoms often become restless and unite to overthrow the government. Many people do not want any guidelines in their personal lives.
1.2.2.5.1.1. Con: That people denied basic freedoms unite and overthrow their governments is historically false . Peasants, serfs, slaves, and other groups lacked even the most basic of freedoms for hundreds, if not thousands of years. While they did revolt, their revolts rarely contributed meaningfully to any instability in the government above them.
1.2.2.6. Pro: Even the US has laws preventing the government from expanding, yet it continues to find ways to [expand itself](http://www.aei.org/publication/why-does-government-grow-and-grow-and-grow/) regardless. The government must be stripped of its ability to grant itself more power.
1.2.3. Pro: The sole purpose of a federal government is to protect the [rights of the people](http://www.edwatch.org/updates/Diversity/govtsrole.htm). The government protecting its own sovereignty is a necessary aspect of this, as the people won’t remain free if the government’s sovereignty is compromised.
1.2.3.1. Pro: A greater diversity of moderate powers \(as opposed to a few giants\) can keep each other in check, rendering government intervention less necessary.
1.2.4. Pro: A smaller government that does not interfere with its citizens’ lives has less power to cause injustices for its citizens.
1.2.4.1. Pro: The government must only be able to protect its citizens from other forms of injustice, and to have no power beyond that; this is the most just possible form of government.
1.2.4.2. Con: What counts as injustice is a matter of who you ask. To some libertarians, taxation is theft. To others it is a practical necessity.
1.2.4.3. Con: Government needs to be as big as the private giants that roam it if they want to defend the public.
1.2.4.4. Con: It's often not possible to protect people from injustice without the risk of causing injustice on others. Given that the government is not omniscient and the definitions of justice differ, avoiding this risk will rarely be possible.
1.2.4.5. Pro: Non-libertarian forms of government have historically been marred by injustice.
1.2.4.5.1. Pro: [Venezuela](http://www.news.com.au/finance/economy/world-economy/every-time-you-buy-less-venezuela-teeters-on-the-brink/news-story/7b651bdb5481d0450786e443d789336f), the country with the largest natural oil supply on Earth, is one of the most impoverished due to failed socialist policies.
1.2.4.5.1.1. Pro: The Venezuelan government seeks to control and plan all aspects of the country's economy and social life. This kind of concentration of power and decision making fosters corruption, abuse and inequality.
1.2.4.5.1.2. Con: There are many external factors that contributed to the impoverishment of Venezuela.
1.2.4.5.2. Pro: The slave trade between Africa, America and Britain and the persistence of slavery in the United States would not have been possible without government support.
1.2.4.5.2.1. Pro: It was only the dissolution of the government - the secession of half the nation, followed by the civil war - that finally allowed the practice of slavery in America to die.
1.2.4.5.3. Pro: Unspeakable atrocities were inflicted on people based on their religion, ethnicity, political or sexual orientation, etc. during the Third Reich in Germany.
1.2.4.5.4. Con: Non-libertarian governments in Scandinavia, New Zealand, and North America have the most open and just [systems](https://worldjusticeproject.org/our-work/wjp-rule-law-index/wjp-open-government-index/global-scores-rankings) in the world, according to the World Justice Project.
1.2.4.5.4.1. Con: There is no libertarian system in that ranking \(and probably in the world\) that the top-ranking governments could be compared to.
1.2.5. Pro: "The only maxim of a free government ought to be to trust no man living with the power to endanger the public liberty" [John Adams](https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/John_Adams#1770s). So government wasn't intended by the founding fathers to control the citizen nor the public but to control powers that threaten them. In theory, it would mean government only needs enough power to perform that basic task, and the more limited societal powers are the more limited government powers could be.
1.2.5.1. Con: What the founding fathers of a single nation intended does not necessarily track the appropriate form for a government to take. This is an example of the fallacy of appeal to authority; libertarianism should be defended on its own merits, not on the basis of whether it was valued by various political thinkers.
1.2.5.1.1. Con: -> See 1.2.1.1.1.
1.2.6. Con: There is no distinction here - protection IS social intervention. Protection from violence is in many ways the foundation of a society, and the forms that protection takes dictate the form of the society. For example, a society can choose to be protected from violent speech through hate speech laws, or can choose to allow this form of violence.
1.2.6.1. Con: One can argue for protection in matters such as hurt feelings and being offended, which is social intervention. Non-social forms of protection would be restricted to things like protecting against hostile foreign entities, and the acts of domestic criminals. The latter clearly has much more severe consequences if not countered.
1.2.6.2. Con: As per the discussion topic info, "government exerts no control over the people beyond the point of dealing with individuals who infringe upon others' rights". Freedom of speech is a natural right of all individuals. Overt and direct threats are aggressions which violate the rights of the victim but short of a threat, speech is not a crime.
1.2.6.3. Con: Speech is not violence.
1.2.6.4. Con: If there were no distinction here, the police and army would simply use hate-speech to subdue their opponents instead of guns.
1.2.7. Pro: The supposed role of the government is to protect its citizens, but the statement in itself is patrimonial due to its origins in the past where patriarchy dominated, but some forms of universal government protection needs to exist, particularly in regards to military and partially economy.
1.2.8. Con: If the government were to be less involved with their citizens, they wouldn't be able to protect citizens as much. For the government to be involved with its citizens, the government has to be an active part of its society as well.
1.2.8.1. Pro: Social involvement via police forces enhances a government's ability to protect its citizens.
1.2.9. Con: "Intended" is a subjective term based on the will of whoever created the \(unspecified\) government and their desired purpose. It is unclear who, if anyone, is intending and therefore not possible to say what they intended the role of government to be.
1.2.10. Pro: Because government policy is enforced by violence, use of government policy against peaceful people is aggression and immoral. Therefore the only moral use of government force is against violent offenders.
1.2.11. Pro: Social psychology [taught](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_influence) us from mass manipulation effect \(marketing, propaganda, fake news\): to protect democracy from it's own weaknesses, the scope of collective intervention has to be narrowed & limited to avoid authority of few opinion makers over the rest by the force of collective manipulation & decision.
1.2.12. Con: The intended role of \(representative\) government is to enforce commonly agreed upon rules.
1.3. Pro: Business thrives with minimal government intervention.
1.3.1. Con: Free market doesn't always lead to the best outcomes for the society or individuals. Regulation is necessary in the areas where profit maximization is not aligned with the best interests of society.
1.3.1.1. Pro: Negative externalities \(e.g. environmental pollution, fragility of financial system, depletion of fish stocks\) created by businesses are not priced by the market giving an advantage to the businesses that create them. This incentivizes businesses to adopt practices that harm the society at large.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: They ARE priced by market as companies rely on customers in order to survive. The financial system is fragile because there is no gold standard and government devalues money by printing more of it. Polluting is going to make you lose customers if people will find out, which can make you bankrupt.
1.3.1.2. Con: Businesses only exist due to their customers. In a truly free market that grants no extra protection for these corporations, consumers still wield the power to decide their fates.
1.3.1.2.1. Con: In theory, in a perfect free market where all consumers have access to all products with no impediment, be it geographical, social, technological or otherwise, this would be true. But we don't live in a perfect free market so through no fault of their own not all consumers have access to all products.
1.3.1.2.1.1. Con: The rise of [eCommerce](https://www.statista.com/topics/2477/online-shopping-behavior/) is rapidly turning America into a place where anyone truly does have access to any product; even in the most [desolate corners of the country.](https://tools.usps.com/go/POLocatorDetailsAction!input.action?&radius=20&locationType=po&locationTypeQ=po&locationID=1354101&utm_source=google-my-business-url&utm_medium=search&utm_campaign=yext)
1.3.1.2.2. Con: Some businesses do not have consumers. For example, Algorithm Trading companies
1.3.1.2.3. Con: This assumes that businesses can't cover shady dealings from their consumers. It is much easier to trick the general public who have no access to your facilities and records, than it is to trick a government inspector who does.
1.3.1.3. Con: A free market always leads to the best outcome for individuals. Regulations only take away options from those individuals. Free market means all the options. Any regulation means at least one less option. For an individual, it's best if he has as many options \(freedom\) to choose from rather than being forced to act according to the government.
1.3.1.3.1. Con: A completely free market allows for deception and lies among all the other legitimate options out there. It makes for a very dangerous world, not the best outcome.
1.3.2. Con: [Free market theory](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/freemarket.asp) indicates that businesses under perfect competition will sell their goods at the marginal cost. This is the opposite of thriving, because it means there is no profits \(after risk adjustment\). In a perfect competition, businesses are not supposed to make any money, because the competition pushes all the benefits down to the consumer.
1.3.3. Pro: Regulations are not only possible but more likely to be appropriate and successful in a state run by a decentralised government.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Many competing business keep each other in check, innovate efficiently by exploring many paths, and if one of them does a boo-boo the effects are limited. A government has no efficient guardian, often follows a single path \('policy'\), and when it errs many lives/territories are affected.
1.3.3.2. Pro: Private entities can regulate their sectors efficiently from a foundation of expertise and experience in their industry.
1.3.3.2.1. Con: These kind of private initiatives can take many years to form, if at all. In the meantime, consumers would suffer from social or environmental damage.
1.3.3.2.2. Pro: Governmental laws and regulations typically target groups of industries, rather than each one on an individual basis - this leads to regulations that can be harmful to smaller industries whose individual needs are not addressed.
1.3.3.3. Pro: Government regulations have a terrible track record of protecting consumers and often protect corporations who lobby instead.
1.3.3.3.1. Con: The solution for this is better governance, not removal of controls over corporations.
1.3.3.3.2. Con: Some government regulations protect consumers \(welfare support, enforcement of law, national security etc\).
1.3.3.4. Con: Decentralized or not, it is still regulation. Federal level regulation would be a better scale to ensure fairness throughout the country. To let private entities regulate themselves does not ensure checks and balances, which is fundamental in any system of rules or constitution.
1.3.4. Con: A lack of government regulation allows monopolies to form.
1.3.4.1. Pro: Monopolies stifle innovation and progress. Without anti-monopoly regulation the incumbent monopolies lose incentives to become better.
1.3.4.1.1. Pro: Governments routinely create monopolies, but make no effort to break them up when they prove to be either expensive or fail to provide good service.
1.3.4.1.2. Con: Monopolies can be prevented without regulation. Certain economic policies can be implemented to provide advantages to smaller businesses in competing with and dethroning monopolies.
1.3.4.1.2.1. Con: That would be regulating the flow of money, via the government, to businesses. Libertarians aren't in favor of the government "picking or choosing winners". This argument is trying to have it both ways.
1.3.4.1.3. Pro: Without any competition, the product or service provided by the monopoly has no reason to improve in quality or price. Quality gradually goes down, while prices go up. Monopolies ultimately hurt the consumer the most.
1.3.4.1.4. Con: Monopolies only remain incumbent when government regulation interferes with the free market, and these monopolistic companies acquire political influence to ensure they retain their power. It is only once laws are passed making competition in the monopolistic entity's field more difficult, or impossible, that the monopoly becomes entrenched.
1.3.4.1.4.1. Con: Large businesses wielding a lot of economical power can engage in anti-competitive practices even without political power.
1.3.4.1.4.1.1. Con: Their competition may also engage in pro-competitive practices if they so desire. In an open free market, there is always someone willing to compete for a larger share of the market.
1.3.4.1.4.2. Pro: Health care providers are exempt from anti trust and consumer protection laws, therefore they don't have to compete in a free market. They have a government protected monopoly.
1.3.4.1.4.3. Con: Microsoft in PC operating systems and Google in search - both monopolies that existed for many years without any laws or government support
1.3.4.1.4.3.1. Con: Microsoft has two major competitors in Mac and Linux. Furthermore, programmers can create their own operating systems from open-source OS Linux. Microsoft does not have a monopoly because nobody needs to purchase their product.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1. Con: A monopoly can have some competitors as long as it has the lion share of the market which enables it to maintain very high profit margins and create high entry barriers
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1. Con: Windows does not have the lion share of the market. If they tried to increase prices or create entry barriers, they would quickly lose business to Mac or Linux.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.1. Con: [Microsoft's dominance of the PC market](http://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/desktop/worldwide) created the situation in which all hardware developers created drivers for Windows but only some created drivers for Linux. Other OS creators would have to create drivers for all these hardware devices which is an enormous competitive barrier
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Since Linux is open-source, anyone can create drivers for it. There are [online databases](https://www.linux-drivers.org/) full of Linux drivers for just about anything you can imagine.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: PC games first design their programs to run on Windows, then Mac, then lastly Linux. PC gamers have no choice but to use Windows unless they want to miss out on a drastic market of PC gaming. Most games never have their programs programmed to work on Mac nor Linux.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.2. Con: [For PCs, Microsoft](http://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/desktop/worldwide) is by far the largest player. You'd have to buy a MacBook computer in order to tap to MacOS which is a huge barrier. And, MacBooks are totally dominated by MacOS so the 'alternative' is another monopoly.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.2.1. Con: A company having 100% of the market for a product designed only for their own product does not constitute a monopoly. The higher product, in this case computers, is the only one where a monopoly would have a genuine economic impact, and the computer market is far from a monopoly.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.3. Con: The average person doesn't know how to install a new OS and any PC comes with Windows pre-installed. Major barrier. On the other hand, practically no PC comes with Linux pre-installed
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.3.1. Con: Anyone can learn how to install a new OS through a [short tutorial](https://www.cnet.com/how-to/how-to-install-linux/). Given the ease with which a free OS like Linux may be installed, it is not a barrier whatsoever.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.3.1.1. Con: Most people are too unmotivated to install another OS due to the inconvenience. Conveinance has proven to be a major determining factor in the development of monopolies.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.3.1.1.1. Pro: People are willing to sacrifice privacy in favor of conveinance. This view is enhanced by the fact [Google and Facebook's privacy controversy](https://www.wired.co.uk/article/facebook-data-cambridge-analytics-psychometrics-privacy) is open to the public yet they still continue to dominate the market.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.2. Con: Linux is completely free. This prevents Microsoft from raising prices on Windows.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.2. Con: It's not practical to run MacOS on a PC. You can only use a virtual machine to run MacOS which features very low performance.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.2.1. Con: You don't need to buy a PC.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.3. Con: -> See 1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.1.1.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4. Con: A business that uses PCs would have to replace all their computers with MacBooks in order to use MacOS which is a huge time and cost barrier.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1. Con: Businesses frequently have to buy new computers as technology advances anyways. This is just a good reason for some businesses to choose Macs as their new computers instead of Windows computers, as Macs can run any OS.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.1. Pro: This is also a good reason for new businesses to buy Macs in the first place, which is an economic advantage for Apple. This proves that Microsoft does not have monopolistic control of the OS market.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.1.1. Con: This isn't a good reason to get a Mac since it puts you in the same position where you're trapped and can't switch for a reasonable effort\\price
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.1.1.1. Con: You don't need to switch if you get a Mac; they can run any OS.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.1.2. Con: Apple has economically 0% of the OS market since MacOS is available for free. Microsoft charges for Windows, used by most OS users and has 100% of the revenue in the OS market despite the fact the alternatives are free.. This proves that Microsoft has a monopoly in the OS market
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.1.2.1. Con: A competitor offering their product for free does not mean the one company that charges for that product has a monopoly. The fact that their competitors' products are free actually puts pressure on Microsoft to ensure the quality and affordability of their product, as it would be very easy to lose business to the free products if they fail their consumers in either of these regards. The danger of a monopoly is its ability to overprice low quality products - Microsoft simply can't do that.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.1.2.2. Con: Most consumers get Windows for free when they purchase a PC. You don't have to specifically buy Windows to get Windows.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.2. Con: The switching cost for an OS is extremely high if you need to get a different computer for that. It's like you need to get a different home if you are not pleased with your current TV
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.2.1. Con: If you buy the computer that can run any OS, it from that point costs only as much as the OS. It's about making the smarter initial decision based on your needs.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.3. Con: If you buy a few new computers with a different OS it causes a lot of compatibility issues.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.3.1. Con: You can install the same old OS you were using before on a Mac. That is one of the advantages of using a Mac.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.4. Con: Businesses rarely replace all their computers at once since the economic and cultural costs are huge.
1.3.4.1.4.3.1.4.1.4.1. Con: They replace them all eventually. Whether it's all at once or individually is not an issue.
1.3.4.1.4.3.2. Con: Google has always had multiple competitors, such as Yahoo.
1.3.4.1.4.3.2.1. Con: Google has more than 90% of the market... That is monopoly by definition [gs.statcounter.com](http://gs.statcounter.com/search-engine-market-share)
1.3.4.1.4.3.2.2. Con: -> See 1.3.4.1.4.3.1.1.
1.3.4.1.4.3.2.3. Con: Yahoo struggles for its survival while Google thrives.
1.3.4.1.4.3.2.3.1. Con: If not Yahoo, try one of Google's [140+ other competitors](http://140+ other competitors). Many of them are far from struggling.
1.3.4.1.4.3.2.4. Con: Google's monopoly is based on its accrued agreements with other companies for exclusive rights to content and its refusal to share its search algorithm. Other competing companies fail due to the fact they have not accrued as many investments that makes competition nearly impossible.
1.3.4.1.4.4. Pro: In a libertarian society, individual liberty must always be favored over group interests. Political influence, therefore, must belong exclusively to the individual.
1.3.4.1.4.5. Con: Businesses have inherent political influence over their workers. Threats of layoffs are common if a legal measure is presented which negatively affects a company.
1.3.4.1.4.5.1. Con: Employees can't be selectively laid off if they don't vote according to their company. Usually the only reason employees of a company would vote how the company wants on certain issues is because the well-being of the company is in the employee's self-interest. If the company loses net profit, everyone suffers.
1.3.4.1.4.5.1.1. Con: The economic interests of the company are still an inherent political influence that a company has over their employees.
1.3.4.1.4.5.1.1.1. Con: Only in the sense that they share a common self-interest. By this same analogy, most citizens of a country share certain political beliefs due to it being in the best interest of those who live in the country. The same can be said of any group of people who may be affected in one way or another by legislation. Businesses are not unique in this way.
1.3.4.2. Con: Monopolies form as a result of government regulation. Government regulations force small businesses out of the market as they cannot afford the financial burden placed on them by the regulation, resulting in a market that is dominated by large corporations who can afford to comply with the regulation.
1.3.4.2.1. Con: Only certain regulations do this. The way to ensure that regulations are fair to small businesses is to get money out of politics not throw out government altogether.
1.3.4.2.2. Con: Monopolies existed first [without](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Competition_law) regulation. There may be ways the companies game the system to act more like a monopoly in more modern times, but that would lead to the lack of proper regulation.
1.3.5. Pro: Businesses thrive in markets where demand and supply are allowed to reach the optimal equilibrium, without external taxes and limitations.
1.4. Con: Without significant federal taxes, our infrastructure would cease to exist.
1.4.1. Con: Local governments in the US have used [other, voluntary means](https://lancasteronline.com/opinion/city-used-lottery-not-taxes-to-raise-revenue-in/article_7f83eff5-7e7a-5edf-bed0-bb2580690b76.html) of acquiring money to pay for infrastructure prior to the institution of income taxes.
1.4.2. Con: Infrastructure existed in the US prior to the institution of the federal income tax in 1913.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Income was largely generated through tariffs, but the American citizens still lived with no tax on their income whatsoever, barring a brief income tax during and shortly after the Civil War.
1.4.2.2. Con: The [Works Progress Administration](https://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/infrastructure/a24692/fdr-new-deal-wpa-infrastructure/) in FDR's New Deal built 650,000 miles of road, 78,000 bridges, 125,000 civilian and military buildings, and 800 airports, modernizing America's infrastructure.
1.4.3. Con: Private enterprise has time and time again proven to be far more efficient at building and repairing infrastructure than the government.
1.4.3.1. Pro: The government of New York City spent six years and $12 million trying to repair the Wollman Memorial Ice Rink. In 1986, Donald Trump took over the project, and famously completed it [under budget, and ahead of schedule](https://nypost.com/2017/01/22/saving-wollman-rink-made-trump-a-new-york-city-hero/), as he proudly states he does with [all his construction projects.](https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-hotel-in-washington-d-c-to-open-ahead-of-schedule-1454901018)
1.4.3.2. Pro: Corporations will build and maintain infrastructure they depend on for business, such as [public roads](https://www.wkbw.com/news/dominos-pizza-is-on-a-mission-to-fix-potholes), when government fails to keep up.
1.4.3.2.1. Con: They do not tend to have the same motivation in the same way that infrastructure delivered via the government needs to consider many more use cases given they are operating on behalf of all of the countries citizens.
1.4.3.2.1.1. Con: It’s better than the government, having little to no motivation at all, as evidenced by the lack of maintenance performed on many of the country's public roads.
1.4.3.3. Con: Infrastructure can be built more efficiently by public or private means [depending](https://www.openaccessgovernment.org/public-private-mix-best-finance-infrastructure/41251/) on a variety of factors. One is not inherently superior to the other.
1.4.4. Pro: Privately held infrastructure can be easily used to create a local monopoly.
1.4.4.1. Con: This only happens when there are laws in place preventing competitors from building infrastructure serving the same area, as is often the case with, for example, electrical utility providers. Take away the laws and governmental protections, and the monopoly won't survive.
1.4.4.1.1. Con: In the example of electrical utility - for a new and remote town, a company can find it profitable to invest in installing electrical infrastructure with the assumption they would be a monopoly \(very high profit margins.\)
When a potential competitor considers to compete, they  might be discouraged because competition would lead to low profit margins that won't justify the infrastructure investment.
1.4.4.1.1.1. Con: A resident of the town who is being negatively affected by the monopoly's price is likely to invest in the infrastructure himself, as evidenced by the prevalence of local internet service providers in areas that don't have laws protecting large companies from competition. If there are no laws protecting a monopoly, someone will always try to get a piece of their market.
1.4.4.1.1.1.1. Con: For the mentioned resident, it still won't make economic sense to invest in the electrical infrastructure due to very high setup cost. It just wouldn't be profitable.
1.4.4.1.1.1.1.1. Con: If the resident is the owner of a business that requires large amounts of electricity, it could actually be more profitable in the long run, especially in the face of electricity costs constantly rising.
1.4.4.1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: That's a big if... If there is a big enough business that can spare vast amounts of resources to invest in such endeavor, if they have the right skill set to do it
1.4.4.1.1.1.1.1.2. Con: The monopoly can decide to keep the price at a level where this won't be economically viable for the local business to build the infrastructure and yet high enough to have large profit margins
1.4.4.1.1.1.1.1.2.1. Con: That means it would have to be kept fairly low, as alternative power sources rapidly become cheaper to install. Hence the point of competition in the free market - the supposed monopoly can't raise prices exorbitantly for fear of losing business to other options.
1.4.4.1.1.1.1.1.3. Con: The electricity bill would have to be enormous in order for this to be profitable because once there's competition profit margins would be low
1.4.4.1.1.1.1.1.3.1. Con: The rise of cheaper alternative power sources like solar would make it more viable.
1.4.4.1.1.1.2. Con: Local internet providers use existing infrastructure, therefore setup cost is low. This claim isn't applicable to high cost infrastructures such as road, water and electric.
1.4.4.1.1.1.2.1. Con: Alternative electric infrastructures such as solar power are rapidly becoming cheaper and more efficient. Middle class individuals are now able to afford solar power setups in areas that don't place extra financial burdens or outright bans on alternative or 'off the grid' power sources.
1.4.4.1.1.1.2.2. Con: Many rural areas have little to no road infrastructure, and they function just fine without it. Paved and maintained roads on any large scale are only necessary in more densely populated urban and suburban areas, where there is going to be competition for road construction.
1.4.4.1.1.1.2.3. Con: If the government hadn't banned the collecting of rain water, people in most rural areas would have no need for water infrastructure.
1.4.4.1.1.2. Con: When a competitor runs out of other major markets to invest in, they will likely target smaller or more remote towns even if the profit margins are low.
1.4.4.2. Con: "Monopoly" is dangerous only when others are not allowed to compete with them. Even when one company is dominant compared to others, it cannot dictate rules, as "bad" rules could make them cease to exist overnight.
1.4.4.2.1. Pro: If Facebook would make users pay to use its services, it'd cease and a new company doing same thing for free would arise. So Facebook cannot do whatever it wants. The only dangerous monopoly is the one where regulation \(government\) prevents competition.
1.4.4.3. Con: It doesn't make sense to mention possibility of a monopoly as downside of removing monopoly. Worst case scenario we have same result. Government is monopoly.
1.4.5. Pro: Without taxes, public goods like roads would not be properly developed or maintained.
1.4.5.1. Con: -> See 1.4.3.2.
1.4.6. Con: This same argument was used by the [church in the 18th century](http://voluntaryist.com/backissues/130.pdf); "...many people believed that they needed to pay a tax for the general support of religion - for the same reasons they paid taxes to maintain the roads or the courts. It was simply inconceivable to many of them that society could long exist without state support of religion". Eventually the church realized this stance was immoral, and payments to the church became voluntary. We can apply this same idea to the state.
1.4.7. Con: In 1910, a group of 10,000 farmers and other volunteers built a road spanning all of Iowa in [one hour](http://usroute6iowa.org/about-us/history). This project was completed in a non-compulsory fashion, and the benefits are shared by all of society.
1.4.8. Con: Not all infrastructure is necessary. The infrastructure needed by society would be privatized, while the government boondoggles would be abandoned.
1.4.8.1. Pro: For example, the [California Bullet Train](https://reason.com/blog/2018/03/09/california-bullet-train-now-5-years-late) is a complete waste of taxpayer money. It is estimated to cost California $77.3 billion dollars \(the initial estimate was $33 billion\), and it may not even get [fully completed](https://reason.com/blog/2018/11/09/under-californias-new-governor-the-propo).
1.5. Con: Some critical aspects of societal advancement may not be economically viable when revenue is prioritized.
1.5.1. Pro: In a free market, the health care industry would maximize their profits by providing treatments for the symptoms of chronic diseases, [rather than providing cures](http://www.iflscience.com/health-and-medicine/goldman-sachs-says-curing-diseases-may-not-be-economically-valid/page-2/).
1.5.1.1. Con: Science and healthcare are two independent things - if a scientist manages to make healthcare obsolete with a discovery, the healthcare industry cannot do anything to stop him or her.
1.5.1.1.1. Con: A big pharma company can buy the patent for the ultimate cure and then do nothing with it.
1.5.1.1.1.1. Con: This is only if a government enforces patents on cures. This is the sort of thing a small enough government would never do.
1.5.1.2. Con: Health insurance agencies will push for cures and better and cheaper treatments to be developed if it will reduce their costs.
1.5.1.3. Con: If that were true, the healthcare industry in America wouldn’t sell vaccines, as cures are much more profitable.
1.5.1.4. Con: Government has also proven they have [no intention to provide cures to most diseases](https://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/us_5631667) due to economic issues. The risk/reward dynamic between private companies and large government to provide cures is insignificant.
1.5.1.5. Con: Many of the reasons why healthcare is as expensive and inefficient as it is in the United States currently is [directly linked](https://youtu.be/IfLdzCt5Zc0) to government intervention into the free market.
1.5.2. Con: Some critical aspects of societal advancement may not be supported by government, in whose best interests it is to keep its people dependent.
1.5.2.1. Con: Many governments provide healthcare for the citizens. Abolishing diseases, for example, is a net benefit to the government since it lowers expenses and increases productivity, which in turn boosts the economy.
1.5.2.1.1. Con: Many governments would prefer to keep their citizens dependent through things like healthcare and medication. These governments want power, not money.
1.5.2.1.1.1. Con: This suggests that those government officials and clerks in charge are conspiring against their citizens. Highly unlikely since so many people would have to be involved in the conspiracy
1.5.2.1.1.1.1. Con: "[Corruption is a serious problem](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10611-017-9732-0) in nearly every state in the world." Young democracies in developing countries are particularly at risk of this.
1.5.2.1.1.2. Con: That would mean a government would disapprove a drug that can save people's lives. Sounds highly unlikely. When the public finds out they would be voted out
1.5.2.1.1.2.1. Con: Cannabis was [federally banned](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comprehensive_Drug_Abuse_Prevention_and_Control_Act_of_1970) for all medicinal use in 1970, which is still the case to this day.
1.5.2.1.2. Con: Productivity is not the target. Government is made by the people with their own interests. They are usually sponsored by big investor who is expecting something in return. This explains why there exists industrial incentives 60 years after it was proved they are always decreasing overall productivity. [Economics in one lesson \(pdf, 198 pages\).](https://admin.fee.org/files/doclib/20121116_economicsinonelesson.pdf)
1.5.2.1.3. Con: The same could be said for a private company or even an individual. Companies have an incentive to ensure their employees are healthy and productive, but if government already provides healthcare, companies might not do as much as they should. It is also in the individual's best interest to stay healthy and ensure adequate healthcare, but in the end it is a personal choice and not up to the government to decide how an individual wants to live their life.
1.5.2.2. Pro: Living off the grid is [illegal in Canada and most US counties](https://www.theinertia.com/environment/apparently-its-illegal-to-live-off-the-grid-2/) as a means of keeping the citizens dependent upon the government.
1.5.3. Pro: Private prisons have an incentive to keep people inside to increase profits. Therefore, rehabilitation of prisoners is not economical
1.5.3.1. Con: That only depends if anyone's paying them to house prisoners. Running a prison is very expensive, and without any source of income generated by it, it would cease to exist in a free market if not held afloat by the government.
1.5.3.2. Con: Fewer laws and regulations will reduce the need for prison space.
1.5.3.3. Con: It's not clear that a society built on libertarian principles will have prisons. A more effective penalty for violators of the established rules could be to have them compensate victims for the damage caused by the violation.
1.5.3.4. Con: [Victimless crimes](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Victimless_crime) are unlikely to be prosecuted in a society built on libertarian principles.
1.5.3.5. Con: Private prisons only profit as much as a government or society is willing to pay them. Private prisons funded by a society rather than a government will have pressure to achieve more positive results or lose their funding. Private prisons funded by the government have no such pressure and receive money per prisoner rather than results.
1.5.3.6. Con: Private prisons can function in favour of rehabilitation and general well being of inmates, as long as the proper incentives are in place.
1.5.4. Con: Libertarianism does not prioritize revenue, but rather stresses the importance of freedom of the individual and voluntary self-organization.
1.5.4.1. Pro: In a libertarian society, people can and will still engage in charity or activities that aren't revenue-maximizing.
1.5.4.2. Con: Left to their own devices, people naturally gravitate towards their own self interests, which includes making profit at the expense of others.
1.5.5. Con: If people are unwilling to provide enough revenue to maintain a service that indicates it does not contribute to societal advancement.
1.6. Con: Less government regulation of business can lead to negative environmental and social repercussions.
1.6.1. Pro: Businesses do not necessarily have either the resources or inclination to accurately assess their individual impact on society and nature. Government is needed to manage an industry's impacts as a whole.
1.6.1.1. Con: -> See 1.3.3.3.
1.6.1.2. Con: Business always inclines towards what people want. The government is needed only in situations when the majority is not willing to spend their resources on certain important issues that only a minority are aware of. But this is not the case of democracy, because in democracy the majority rules.
1.6.1.3. Pro: Without government regulation, gas companies would have continued to sell toxic [leaded gasoline](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/leaded-gas-poison-invented-180961368/), which some scientists have [attributed](http://www3.amherst.edu/~jwreyes/papers/LeadCrimeNBERWP13097.pdf) to lower IQ scores and higher crime rates.
1.6.1.3.1. Con: Making it illegal to poison people with toxic fumes is not the same as regulating businesses. Both achieve the same result.
1.6.2. Pro: Free businesses might exploit human weaknesses and [biases](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cognitive_biases) to get their money in unethical ways.
1.6.2.1. Con: Governments also might [exploit human weaknesses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Kampuchea#Education) and biases to reach dubious objectives, or to use [unethical ways](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santebal) and they can do it with way more power than a business or even a cartel.
1.6.2.2. Con: To be able to implement the regulations, you would have to designate bias experts. These people will accumulate power, and that is dangerous. But most importantly: there is no good way to select those people and give them power, because the same mechanism for weakness exploitation can be used by politicians.
1.6.2.2.1. Pro: Such mechanisms are actually used by politicians more frequently. In a free market you lose money when you make bad decisions, but elections provide far less feedback \(plus the feedback is much more complicated than income balance\). People continue making the same mistakes again and again until they completely destroy the country \(e.g. USSR, Venezuela\).
1.6.3. Pro: Free market tends to be socially beneficial only in mature industries with high competition.
1.6.3.1. Pro: In an emerging industry with little competition monopolies tend to form [www.wsj.com](https://www.wsj.com/articles/peter-thiel-competition-is-for-losers-1410535536), leading to high prices and lower potential quality
1.6.3.2. Con: The majority of industries are mature, and all successful industries eventually mature with time. It is most logical to favor mature industries as a whole, economic principle.
1.6.3.2.1. Con: Industry maturation can take many years and even decades. In the meantime, some people can suffer from irreparable health issues, lose of personal possesions or poor product\\service quality.
1.6.3.2.1.1. Pro: If a bank defaults, I would lose all my money and maybe my house if I can't keep paying my mortgage.
1.6.3.2.1.1.1. Con: You can lose all your money for any number of reasons. This is why people invest in a variety of sources.
1.6.3.2.1.2. Pro: If a drug company produces a drug with severe health consequences, the damage to me may be irreparable.
1.6.3.2.1.2.1. Con: This can happen in any situation, especially in instances when animal testing produces different results than human drug trials. A free market only ensures that companies that continually do this will go out of business.
1.6.3.2.1.2.2. Pro: Until a company with bad practices goes out of business many people can suffer. A well functioning government can set a high bar for drug development that would prevent any citizen from suffering due to bad practices of a drug company.
1.6.3.2.1.2.3. Pro: A government can also compensate and help people that suffered in case its control mechanisms missed some bad practices. On the contrary, a company that goes out of business won't compensate anyone
1.6.3.2.1.2.4. Con: Taking experimental drugs is completely voluntary. You must assume the risk if you wish to do that.
1.6.3.2.1.2.4.1. Con: A drug doesn't have to be experimental in order to cause damage. Corporations have an incentive to hide or minimize the perceived significance of these risks.
1.6.3.2.1.2.4.1.1. Con: Intentionally or knowingly causing harm to people with a product would be illegal in any governmental system besides absolute anarchy. That's not a matter of regulation of the free market - that's just a crime.
1.6.3.2.1.3. Con: The long-term benefits of a free market greatly outweigh the short-term consequences in those few markets that have not yet matured.
1.6.3.2.2. Con: Innovation makes any industry lose maturity by disrupting the status quo. Rate of innovation grows exponentially so disruption would be even more prevalent in the future.
1.6.4. Con: Government regulation often has unintended side-effects, and government tends to leave laws in place whether they are achieving the desired ends or not.
1.6.5. Con: People can hold businesses accountable and refuse to do business with those whose ethics are questionable.
1.6.5.1. Con: Although the market does give people the power to hold businesses accountable, this takes action and sometimes sacrifice on the part of consumers. The public has not demonstrated a willingness to reliably take the actions and make the sacrifices needed to hold businesses accountable.
1.6.5.1.1. Con: It's usually as simple as not buying from a company you disagree with. Businesses have a long track record of changing their business practices when it affects their bottom line.
1.6.5.1.2. Con: The public continuously holds businesses accountable. Businesses thrive because they are voluntarily patronized by customers. They fail because customers withdraw their patronage.
1.6.5.2. Pro: It has never been easier for people to share opinions of businesses with others.
1.6.5.2.1. Pro: [Companies](https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/7937-business-review-websites.html) like Yelp, Angie's List, and Amazon reviews allow the public to punish errant companies and reward good ones more effectively than the government.
1.6.6. Pro: Policies such as the clean air act have reduced pollution.
1.6.6.1. Con: French economist Fréderic Bastiat showed more than 150 years ago that there are "Seen and Unseen" effects in policies. The seen effect here is the cleaner air. The unseen effects are some costs. To refer to clean air without mentioning the costs is meaningless for everyone, for whom the clean air is not the only important thing in this world.
1.6.7. Con: Environmental and social wellbeing are ultimately in the best interests of businesses. Given enough freedom, businesses don't need to compromise society or the environment to thrive. Preserving these things will help them in the long run.
1.6.7.1. Pro: Nobody starts a business intending it to fail. They all must utilize sustainable business models. Any damage caused would be avoided through the government allowing companies what they need, while encouraging socially beneficial business practices, and enforcing individual liberty in the case a business attempts to infringe upon it. That’s as opposed to simply punishing those who step outside some arbitrary boundary with taxes and regulations, which kill otherwise perfectly good businesses.
1.6.7.1.1. Con: Many founders plan to sell their business, especially start-ups. Therefore, for these businesses long-term sustainable considerations are very low priority
1.6.7.1.1.1. Con: Proving that the business has the ability to be sustained long-term is a major selling point. Potential buyers don't want to buy a business that will inevitably collapse.
1.6.7.1.1.1.1. Con: Investors want enough ROI, long-term success is a secondary consideration. If they can make money from selling their shares to make short term gain they would do it. Prior to the dot com bubble investors invested and sold they shares once their price soared, making nice profits, even though they knew that it is a bubble that would eventually burst. The same for investment bankers that rolled off the toxic assets prior to sub prime crisis.
1.6.7.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Investing in a publicly traded company is not the same as buying out the company - whoever is in charge of it when it collapses is the one who loses money, and it is in their best interest to keep that from happening.
1.6.7.2. Con: Regulation needs to be applied globally otherwise business will just move overseas where they are free to run sweatshops and pollute the environment
1.6.7.2.1. Con: This would only be possible with a single global government, which is nigh impossible due to the stark differences in the world's cultures.
1.6.7.2.1.1. Pro: Global government opens the door to global tyranny.
1.6.7.2.1.2. Con: There can be an international agreement among nations.
1.6.7.2.1.2.1. Con: Considering all the nations currently [at war](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ongoing_armed_conflicts) with one another, finding a common ground between every single country on Earth would require a global reform on a scale never seen, and seldom even thought possible.
1.6.7.2.2. Con: Countries like China and India who benefit greatly from this practice will put up a huge fight to keep it in place, especially with how much money is involved. Unless you want to go to war, this practice will continue.
1.6.7.3. Con: Shareholders and executives often prioritize short-term gains over very long term risks especially with emerging businesses where investors can sell their portion of the company after a few years
1.6.7.4. Con: -> See 1.5.1.
1.6.7.5. Pro: As sustainable technology advances, more and more businesses will adopt sustainable methods; not because they are legally required to, but because it ensures they will never run out of the resources essential to their business. Eventually, sustainability will be more cost-effective than unsustainable methods.
1.6.7.5.1. Con: Human nature is often to maximise profit/production/success in the short them, without looking at long term external, possibly unintended impacts.
1.6.7.5.1.1. Con: Human nature often doesn’t yield the best results. Businesses that intend to survive long-term must ignore this instinct.
1.6.7.5.1.2. Pro: -> See 1.6.7.3.
1.6.7.5.2. Con: -> See 1.6.1.
1.6.7.5.3. Pro: Businesses that have no consideration for long terms effects eventually fail. It is in the best interest of any sustainable business model to consider such things.
1.6.7.5.3.1. Con: An unsustainable business may eventually fail, but in the mean time it does short term damage. Therefore government is required to regulate businesses to prevent such damage.
1.6.7.5.3.1.1. Con: -> See 1.6.7.1.
1.6.7.5.4. Con: Energy production is not the only source of pollution. Waste management, air quality, and many other factors contribute to pollution.
1.6.7.6. Pro: Any business in a truly free market depends on its customers. If a business betrays society's best interest, the consumers will turn to the competition instead. Businesses must treat the public right in order to survive.
1.6.7.6.1. Con: A business's consumers [are not necessarily impacted by the environmental hazards they produce](http://www.cleveland19.com/story/36469073/maryland-suing-epa-on-power-plant-pollution-in-ohio-other-states).
1.6.7.6.1.1. Con: The consumers don’t have to be physically impacted to be morally impacted.
1.6.7.6.2. Con: This is not the case with monopolies or a duopoly which has reached agreements.
1.6.7.6.2.1. Con: A truly free market will not allow a monopoly to exist. Monopolies are roadblocks in true capitalism.
1.6.7.6.2.1.1. Con: Monopolies are resisted by anti-monopoly legislation, which is a form of government regulation.
1.6.7.6.2.1.1.1. Con: -> See 1.3.4.1.2.
1.6.7.6.2.1.2. Con: Capitalism creates natural monopolies, since business wants to create the most profits, therefore non democratically elected corporation can use their monopoly to force people to pay for whatever they sell and charge for their service, effectively replacing the government.
1.6.7.7. Con: Most environmental regulations were initially introduced because of pollution from businesses.
1.6.7.7.1. Con: -> See 1.6.7.5.
1.6.7.8. Pro: Businesses with a "green" approach typically end up with larger profits. Displaying your company as environmentally friendly has proven to be an excellent marketing device.
1.6.8. Con: "Government regulation" is a euphemism for violence imposed on those who do not follow the rules.
1.6.8.1. Pro: It's entirely reasonable to muster violence against people who commit actions that are environmentally or socially damaging, as environmental or social damage is a kind of violence against the people in and of itself.
1.6.9. Pro: A government that does not intervene with social issues necessarily leads to social inequality.
1.6.9.1. Con: A libertarian government naturally promotes less division between races. The individual is the only one [truly capable of defeating racism](https://fee.org/articles/libertarianism-anti-racism/). No law or government program can ever achieve that. To do that, the people must be given the freedom to make their own choices.
1.6.9.1.1. Con: Government do influence culture which can influence people's behavior \(e.g. fines and imprisonment deter people from certain behaviors\)
1.6.9.1.1.1. Con: Reverse psychology also suggests people are more likely to have a desire to do things they are told not to do, even in spite of consequences.
1.6.9.2. Pro: When inequality is unaddressed it has the potential to create permanent underclasses, such as slavery and caste systems.
1.6.9.2.1. Pro: Underclasses prevent the best people from being able to rise to the top because of circumstances outside their control, and allows people who are not the best to remain at the top.
1.6.9.2.2. Con: Laws can easily be set in place that prohibit [slavery](https://www.archives.gov/historical-docs/13th-amendment) and harmful caste systems without interfering with individual liberty in a libertarian society.
1.6.9.2.2.1. Con: There are informal versions of social hierarchies which would go unaddressed.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1. Pro: People who are born rich would be more likely to stay rich regardless of their ability. Likewise, poor people would be likely to stay poor regardless of their ability.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1. Con: In a true capitalist system, sufficiently talented, intelligent, entrepreneurial or hard-working individuals may rise through the financial ranks by their own merit.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.1. Con: Individuals which are more powerful, wealthy, talented, or otherwise gifted would have an advantage over others, and could plausibly create a feudal aristocracy in short order.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.1.1. Con: This happens in every society ever sustained, from the ruling classes in Soviet Russia and Maoist China to the Silicon Valley elites of America. Inequality on a large scale is impossible to abolish, which renders this useless as an argument against libertarianism.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.1.2. Con: A certain level of inequality of outcome is actually a good thing, as it promotes ambition and rewards merit. This allows the most talented or intelligent individuals to rise to the top of the social hierarchy, where they can be of most use to the rest of their society. Those at the top generally deserve to be there.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.1.2.1. Con: Seeking to constrain exceptional people from having too much influence is not the same thing as seeking to enforce absolute equality.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.1.2.1.1. Con: Exceptional people only have 'too much influence' when they can buy influence from the government. The problem is not exceptional people, it's governmental corruption.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.1.3. Con: Productive and talented members of society shouldn’t be forced to be on the same level, socially or financially, as lazy and unintelligent people. Some level of inequality is a necessity for a functioning society.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.1.4. Con: The only way to possibly avoid this is through totalitarianism, theft, violence, and indoctrination. Every society that has ever strived for economic equity has collapsed and led to the [deaths of millions.](https://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/stalin-died-60-years-too-late)
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.1.5. Pro: Society is made worse off when its members think of one another as enemies, which is what happens when the haves refuse to consider reasonable accommodations with the have nots.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.1.5.1. Con: This also happens when the haves are stolen from by the have nots. The only solution is to have a moral society without legalized theft.
1.6.9.2.2.1.1.1.2. Pro: In the US, there are nearly [28 million](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonnazar/2013/09/09/16-surprising-statistics-about-small-businesses/#69f399f55ec8) small businesses. This is an example of people succeeding in America's capitalist system.
1.6.9.2.3. Pro: The so-called '[Great Gatsby curve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Gatsby_curve)' suggests that social mobility is lower in countries with larger income inequality.
1.6.9.2.3.1. Con: The correlation observed in the "Great Gatsby curve" could [well be an artifact](http://gregmankiw.blogspot.com/2013/07/some-observations-on-great-gatsby-curve.html). Lower dispersion of incomes makes a higher intergenerational income mobility inherently more likely.
1.6.9.2.4. Con: Less government intervention means a lower possibility of laws and regulations that contribute to solidifying permanent underclasses.
1.6.9.2.4.1. Pro: Racial segregation in the US or Apartheid in South Africa was supported by law and enforced by government.
1.6.9.2.4.2. Pro: Immigration laws prevent people who aren't citizens of a country from fully participating in the labor market or starting their own businesses.
1.6.9.3. Pro: If the government does not intervene, it is those that are worse off and in need of welfare support that perish.
1.6.9.3.1. Con: The free market and charitable organizations support those who need help much better than a government welfare program can. Welfare breeds complacency, which keeps people impoverished.
1.6.9.3.1.1. Pro: ["...the decrease in poverty between 1900 and 1967 occurred before the advent of the greatly expanded welfare state. In other words, it was the free market, not government welfare, that caused the poverty rate to fall from 56 percent in 1900 to 13 percent in 1967"](https://fee.org/articles/the-free-market-lifting-all-boats/)
1.6.9.3.1.1.1. Con: Correlation doesn't mean causation. In other countries \(some with welfare some without\) poverty also dropped during this time.
1.6.9.3.1.1.1.1. Pro: [Japan](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Welfare_in_Japan) has enacted multiple welfare programs starting 1920s and [extreme poverty plummeted](https://ourworldindata.org/extreme-poverty) in those years
1.6.9.3.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Extreme poverty dropped globally due largely to the [advancement of technology](https://learningenglish.voanews.com/a/a-23-2008-07-01-voa1-83136752/128566.html). This happens in spite of welfare, not because of it.
1.6.9.3.1.2. Con: Government assures that all who's in need would be supported. There are no mechanisms in a free market that can assure that charitable organizations would provide enough support to ALL individuals in need. Some would be left to suffer or die
1.6.9.3.1.2.1. Pro: The finite and uncertain nature of charitable support doesn't allow people to plan long term and therefore inhibits their ability to pull themselves out of poverty
1.6.9.3.1.2.1.1. Con: Government programs often end up supporting people who are not in need, or breeding complacency among those who begin receiving support. The finite and uncertain nature of charitable support necessarily prevents complacency and system abuse, yet it would be enough to allow people to return to being able to support themselves.
1.6.9.3.2. Con: Only [30% of welfare recipients](https://www.upi.com/Census-30-percent-on-welfare-disabled/17991361916506/) are disabled, meaning, at the very least, 70% are able to work. Those who are able but not willing to work hard enough to support themselves don't deserve the money of taxpayers.
1.6.9.3.2.1. Pro: Most people with disabilities can still work if their needs are accommodated.
1.6.9.3.2.2. Pro: Many people who receive government support for disability have very mild, non-debilitating issues that do not preclude their ability to work in most situations.
1.6.9.3.3. Con: The way out of poverty is not through being given free money, but through hard work.
1.6.9.4. Con: -> See 1.2.4.
1.6.9.5. Con: Unequal outcomes are an important signal how resources and labour in a society should be allocated. If we had perfect \(or even forced\) equality, the individuals' incentive to innovate to improve their living conditions would be undermined and society would stagnate.
1.6.9.5.1. Pro: Struggles and challenges are an essential aspect of the human condition.
1.6.9.5.1.1. Pro: Those who seek to abolish all the difficulties and inequalities in life fail to understand how it is precisely those things that drive innovation and discovery. Without these things, society would become inherently complacent and stagnant.
1.6.9.5.1.1.1. Pro: Necessity is the mother of invention.
1.6.9.5.1.2. Pro: It's the desire to work to create one's own prosperity that reduces excess inequality, not the desire to take from those who have successfully created their own prosperity.
1.6.9.6. Con: Equality is not justice.
1.6.9.6.1. Pro: A just system allows people to reap the full rewards of their effort, skill, and intelligence. Some people are naturally more skilled, harder working, or more intelligent than others. Those who provide the greatest benefit to society should be allowed to rise to the top. It’s not equal, but it is just.
1.6.9.6.1.1. Con: Not all people who rise to the top are more skilled, harder working, or more intelligent. Some people reach the top by birth, criminal activity, or exploitation.
1.6.9.6.1.1.1. Con: Crime, birthright, and exploitation will exist regardless of what economic system is in place. This is not the fault of a just economic system that does allow the hard-working to also reach the top.
1.6.9.6.1.2. Con: People that rise to the top can stay there due to their power even if they stop being harder working and stop acting intelligently
1.6.9.6.1.2.1. Con: History has shown this time and time again: the [foolish and lazy](https://www.businessinsider.com/the-worst-ceos-in-american-history-2010-5) always eventually fall from power.
1.6.9.6.1.2.2. Con: Those that rise to the top do not prevent others from doing so by staying there.
1.6.9.6.1.2.2.1. Con: Those at the top have more power than people at the bottom. They can use their power to stay at the top and prevent from others rising. This happens in any form of organization be it a government, corporation or even mega-corps vs. small businesses
1.6.9.6.1.2.2.1.1. Con: In a governmental system that enforces the rule of law, and provides no protections or benefits to those at the top, they have no extra power.
1.6.9.6.1.3. Pro: The wealthiest people tend to create the most jobs, which is what allows people to rise from poverty in the first place.
1.6.10. Con: Market demand has lead to many environmental successes. The honey bee crisis was effectively solved due to [beekeepers invested interest in their livestock](http://www.msnbc.com/msnbc/why-we-can-stop-panicking-about-the-honeybees).
1.6.11. Con: Government regulations often enshrine policies that are unresponsive to changing needs, information, technologies, and priorities. Business that can make their own decisions are the most responsive.
1.6.12. Con: The biggest polluters in history have been the [state](https://fee.org/articles/governments-are-the-worst-violators-of-pollution-laws/).
1.7. Pro: In the few instances in which libertarianism has been dutifully tried it has led to unprecedented economic prosperity and peace for generations.
1.7.1. Pro: [Neutral Moresnet](https://mises.org/library/anarchy-aachen) is the most successful example of anarcho-capitalism in world history.
1.7.1.1. Con: Moresnet was overseen by several nations. It was specifically in a demilitarized zone, that was conceded by other states.
1.7.1.1.1. Pro: If there were no large states, as would occur in an ideal libertarian world, then most places on earth would be demilitarized zones, and state's claims to land would be weaker.
1.7.1.1.2. Con: Despite that, it was very isolated and had almost no interaction with any of the involved nations. The citizens, in that case, were free to govern themselves.
1.7.1.1.2.1. Con: Their status as a DMZ meant that they could spend relatively little on their military and protective policies. This affects their economy as a whole.
1.7.1.1.2.1.1. Con: Being a very small isolated area, they wouldn't have had to anyways. Many small isolated nations, [like those on islands and between other countries' borders](https://www.storypick.com/country-no-army/), don't have any military whatsoever.
1.7.1.2. Con: Moresnet's existence was due to two nations feuding over who would have the property rights to a mineral rich area. The fact that they were economically prosperous was most likely due to their mineral wealth rather than libertarian philosophy.
1.7.1.2.1. Con: A wealth of resources does not necessarily mean that a country will be wealthy. Without libertarian philosophies, even the most resource-wealthy areas can become impoverished. Certain libertarian policies are essential to maintaining any healthy economy.
1.7.1.2.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.4.5.1.
1.7.2. Pro: The [United States of America](http://independentpoliticalreport.com/2017/04/was-america-ever-libertarian/) functioned mostly under libertarian principles for most of its existence, until relatively recently. These are the principles that allowed one of the world's youngest countries to quickly rise to the center of the world stage.
1.7.2.1. Con: America was considered libertarian from its founding until the 1860s. This was also the time that slavery occurred.
1.7.2.1.1. Con: True libertarianism demands freedom for all individuals. America, during that time, was functioning as a libertarian society in an economic sense, but not yet fully in a social sense.
1.7.2.1.1.1. Con: Then America was not libertarian during most of its existence.
1.7.2.1.1.1.1. Con: It may not have been, but it had displayed how many of these libertarian philosophies can be successful. America’s economy would have most likely been even stronger today had they fully adopted all the philosophies of libertarianism.
1.7.2.1.2. Con: There is no causal link between slavery and libertarianism. The policies of libertarianism function better without slavery.
1.7.2.1.2.1. Con: Expenditures by a country tend to be lower when there is free labor.
1.7.2.1.2.1.1. Con: Slaves also make no contribution to the economy, or pay taxes, yet there would be many costs associated with maintaining them. Hiring free citizens as employees far is more beneficial for the economy as a whole.
1.7.2.1.2.1.1.1. Con: Businesses may not be concerned with the economy as a whole.
1.7.2.1.2.1.1.1.1. Con: Every business is affected by the economy it operates in.
1.7.2.1.2.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Some businesses exploit the system for the greatest benefit to their bottom line. [Amazon pays zero dollars in federal taxes.](https://www.foxbusiness.com/markets/amazon-earned-5-6b-in-2017-but-paid-no-federal-taxes)
1.7.2.1.2.1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Amazon, being an online retailer and huge employer still pays other taxes, like sales tax, and they provide a huge contribution to the economy.
1.7.2.1.2.2. Pro: The concept of slavery is incompatible with true libertarianism, which favors individual liberty above all else.
1.7.2.2. Con: America was very libertarian in the 1920s. This helped lead to the Great Depression.
1.7.2.2.1. Con: The Great Depression would have only been a regular depression had it not been for the extremely [anti-libertarian policies](http://newsroom.ucla.edu/releases/FDR-s-Policies-Prolonged-Depression-5409) implemented by Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
1.7.2.2.1.1. Con: Part of Roosevelt's New Deal policy was non-enforcement of antitrust laws, which is libertarian in principle.
1.7.2.2.1.1.1. Con: Non-enforcement of antitrust laws are only libertarian insofar as they are to be replaced by economic policy that favors businesses that are fair to their consumers. One without the other is merely a failure to implement libertarianism.
1.7.2.2.1.1.1.1. Con: This is not a libertarian philosophy. Most right-libertarian philosophies tend towards complete government non-interference.
1.7.2.2.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Economic policy is not interference. In fact, libertarianism is an economic policy.
1.7.2.2.1.1.1.1.2. Con: That’s not necessarily true. Libertarians believe some government involvement is necessary. The government must only [“protect property rights, adjudicate disputes, and provide a legal framework in which voluntary trade is protected.”](https://www.lp.org/issues/the-economy/)
1.7.2.2.1.2. Pro: [Unemployment remained very high](http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/421169?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents) due to NIRA encouraging collusion and anti-competition policies between businesses, granting unions more bargaining power, and mandatory wage increases.
1.7.2.2.1.2.1. Pro: The eventual abandonment of these anti-competitive policies coincides with the strong economic recovery seen in the 1940's.
1.7.2.2.1.3. Pro: FDR's attempted stimulus plan [ultimately failed](https://www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/011116/economic-effects-new-deal.asp) because they tried reducing income inequality as a means of recovering the economy. The New Deal significantly increased taxes, artificially raised prices on goods, and discouraged small business.
1.7.2.2.1.3.1. Con: The New Deal resulted in significant income growth for the Middle Class through the end of the war up until the Reagan Tax Cuts.
1.7.2.2.1.3.1.1. Con: Yes, it had some success in reducing income inequality, but it was at the cost of prolonging the Great Depression and further damaging the economy. FDR’s policies are still to blame for the prolongment of the depression.
1.7.2.2.1.3.1.2. Pro: The intention of The New Deal was not to grow the economy, but to grow the wealth of the average American, and from a Macro perspective, this did happen. [The median income in The United States increased 900% in 38 years from 1947 to 1985.](https://www.census.gov/prod/99pubs/99statab/sec31.pdf)
1.7.2.2.1.3.1.2.1. Con: FDR believed reducing the wage gap would result in a stronger economy. The wage gap was successfully, albeit artificially, reduced, but the economy suffered as a result. It solved a problem that wasn’t the real problem to begin with.
1.7.2.2.1.4. Con: Roosevelt wasn't President until 1933. The depression was three years old at that point.
1.7.2.2.1.4.1. Con: It was his [policies](https://www.facebook.com/prageru/videos/1773960495980132/) that helped drag it on for seven more years. It could have been a regular economic depression otherwise.
1.7.2.2.1.4.1.1. Con: -> See 1.7.2.2.1.1.
1.7.2.2.1.4.1.2. Pro: -> See 1.7.2.2.1.2.
1.7.2.2.1.4.1.3. Pro: -> See 1.7.2.2.1.3.
1.7.2.2.2. Con: The 1920’s were also some of the most [economically prosperous](https://www.history.com/topics/roaring-twenties) years in America’s History. It wasn’t until libertarian policies were being abandoned that the economy entered the heart of the Great Depression.
1.7.2.2.2.1. Con: Both the economic prosperity and the stock market crash were due to deregulation as part of libertarian policies.
1.7.2.2.2.1.1. Con: Recessions and depressions are a natural part of a working economy. Deregulation would have also allowed for much quicker recovery from these events.
1.7.2.2.2.1.1.1. Con: Regulations allow for greater stability. Under a libertarian economic system the highs are higher and the lows are lower.
1.7.2.2.2.1.1.1.1. Con: Despite this, the net gain is much higher. An overly regulated economy may be more stable, but it averages at a lower point that a free market does.
1.7.2.2.2.1.1.2. Con: Though the highs are great for a small part of the population, a greater percentage of the population is affected by the lows.
1.7.2.2.2.1.1.2.1. Con: Highs and lows affect the entire population in a free market system. The highs mean more revenue for businesses, and more jobs, higher wages, and lower costs of living for lower classes. Even the upper class doesn't escape the effects of a depressed economy.
1.7.3. Pro: [Switzerland’s economy](https://www.quora.com/What-countries-come-closest-to-being-ideal-libertarian-societies/answer/Abhimanyu-Pallavi-Sudhir) comes very close to economic libertarianism in certain areas. Different parts of Switzerland are governed differently, as states in the US are, but the most economically libertarian of these states are generally the most prosperous.
1.7.3.1. Pro: Switzerland has [no minimum wage](https://www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/080515/5-developed-countries-without-minimum-wages.asp), yet they have some of the [highest average wages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_average_wage) in the world, as well as some of the [lowest rates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_unemployment_rate) of unemployment.
1.7.3.2. Pro: Switzerland has a very small federal government with no single head of state.
1.7.3.3. Pro: Healthcare is owned entirely by private business. The free market increases quality while lowering costs. Even though it is mandatory, the government does not operate or otherwise interfere with the private healthcare system.
1.7.3.4. Pro: The Swiss canton [Zug](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2008/may/31/taxavoidance.tax) has one of the lowest tax rates in the world. Despite its low population, it is one of the most prosperous economic centers in the world. There are more businesses registered there than there are citizens.
1.7.3.4.1. Con: The fact that there are more businesses registered in Switzerland should point to the idea that businesses are not concerned with the well-being of its community, but with making a profit.
1.7.3.4.1.1. Con: The two ideologies are not mutually exclusive. In fact, profit depends on community support. Only satisfied customers are repeat customers. Companies who disregard the well-being of the community will quickly lose its customers.
1.7.3.5. Con: [Healthcare is compulsory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Healthcare_in_Switzerland) in Switzerland, which is a politically and economically authoritarian policy.
1.7.3.5.1. Con: -> See 1.7.3.3.
1.7.3.6. Con: Switzerland achieves a high wage through [union support](https://www.ch.ch/en/minimum-wage-and-average-earnings/), not through libertarian principles.
1.7.3.6.1. Pro: Freedom of association is key to libertarian [philosophy and principles](https://www.libertarianism.org/topics/labor-unions)(The libertarian principle on which the legitimacy of labor unions depends is freedom of association. Any person has a natural right to associate with any other person or group for any purpose that does not trespass against the natural rights of third parties and provided the relationship is voluntary. Conversely, any person has a natural right to refrain from association with any other person or group no matter how fervently the other parties may desire the association. Labor unions that respect each person’s freedom of association are legitimate). If workers want to contract with each other a labour organizations, then they should be free to do so. This is not inherently contrary to libertarianism.
1.7.3.6.2. Con: No minimum wage is one such libertarian principle in action in Switzerland. Should they ever impose a minimum wage, the Swiss economy would likely see a major [increase production costs and unemployment rates](http://www.bbc.com/news/business-27459178).
1.7.3.6.2.1. Con: Minimum wage is not used in Switzerland because no one is paid below the [standard of living](http://www.businessinsider.com/switzerland-is-better-than-america-2014-7). This is not the case in countries like the United States.
1.7.3.6.2.1.1. Con: Ironically, increasing the minimum wage necessarily [increases the cost of living](https://www.thoughtco.com/reasons-raising-the-minimum-wage-can-hurt-the-economy-3303554). Low cost of living could be achieved in America by removing the minimum wage, among other things.
1.7.3.6.2.1.1.1. Con: Repealing the minimum wage may mean a lower cost of living, but it would also mean that many more people could not afford the cost of living since they are not being paid enough.
1.7.3.6.2.1.1.1.1. Con: Wages may rise organically without minimum wage due to competition between lower-wage employers for employees. With a set minimum wage, they all pay the same, and this no longer happens.
1.7.3.6.2.1.1.1.1.1. Con: There is also the effect of a race to the bottom for wages by employees.
1.7.3.6.2.1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: There is no such thing. [Switzerland](https://www.fff.org/2016/04/07/minimum-wage-smartness-switzerland/) has no minimum wage, yet they have some of the highest wages in the world. Work is subject to the laws of supply and demand just as any product is. This actually causes an upward trend in pay, as companies offer higher wages for the best employees, as they can hire more people. Unskilled workers can then get jobs they normally would never have been hired for, because they can be paid less. This allows them to gain work experience and achieve higher pay later.
1.7.3.6.3. Con: A libertarian government would not likely prohibit labor unions. They can coexist with other libertarian principles in achieving economic prosperity.
1.7.3.6.3.1. Con: A libertarian government is not necessary to achieve union support. Unions are not an advantage of libertarianism.
1.7.3.6.3.1.1. Con: A libertarian government and unions could theoretically synergize for the greatest benefit. Any form of government that restricts the corporate environment too much risks diminishing the effect of unions on high wages.
1.7.3.6.3.1.1.1. Con: A libertarian government could synergise with corporations to crush union support. Since most right-libertarian philosophy is pro-business, this seems more likely.
1.7.3.6.3.1.1.1.1. Con: Crushing unions would require legislation infringing on the freedom of the worker to form them. The most likely outcome would be for a libertarian government to take no sides on the matter, allowing both businesses and their workers freedom to do as they please. A libertarian government, with a very open free-market philosophy, combined with the fact that unions would still be allowed to form \(even without government support\) would have a synergistic effect without the two ever working together.
1.7.3.6.3.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Crushing unions would not require legislation at all. All it would require is a pro-business viewpoint by the people tasked with arbitration.
1.7.3.6.3.1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Libertarianism, both on the left and the right, is concerned with individual freedom. Those tasked with arbitration would be trying to balance the individual rights of the employers with the individual rights of the employees. They may favor businesses overall, but individual cases may differ. The point of arbitration is to decide case-by-case, and in some cases, a union may come out on top. They are not, however, deliberately forbidden from existing.
1.8. Con: Significant government involvement is required to create the security necessary for fulfilling human relationships.
1.8.1. Con: Every attempt in history to create such communal integration has been a failure.
1.8.1.1. Pro: Individuals do not share the same needs or desires. Some choose to be lazy, where, in a communal society, they would be kept afloat through programs designed to abolish poverty and homelessness. The more people who do this, the larger the financial strain becomes on those who still choose to work. And, without the ability to rise above, the incentive to work harder is lost. Eventually everyone will stop working.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: People are not motivated to work only by their desire to rise above others, but also by their desire to improve themselves as individuals
1.8.1.1.1.1. Con: When everything one creates is taken and redistributed, this motivation quickly fades.
1.8.1.1.1.2. Con: Most necessary jobs in a communal society don't provide the individual any opportunity to improve without financial gain.
1.8.1.1.2. Con: "Working hard," in the sense that it seems to be used here, is not an end in itself, and does not lead to moral and fulfilling lives. Thus that a form of government does not use a competitive market to coerce its people into working hard is hardly to its detriment
1.8.1.1.2.1. Con: A fulfilling life is a result of achieving what one desires, and in many cases, only a free market can provide those desires.
1.8.1.1.3. Con: Laziness and the sort of 'free riding' activity mentioned here is deeply unsatisfying; few people can wish to spend their lives on such activities but would rather contribute to their communities, families, and societies.
1.8.1.1.3.1. Con: The number of people who would choose to be lazy would far outweigh those who would choose to work for no personal gain. Whether or not it is ‘unsatisfying’ fails to outweigh basic human instincts in most cases.
1.8.1.1.3.2. Con: Many people would choose to be artists rather than work laborious jobs. This can be simultaneously very satisfying while not contributing anything of value in a survival sense.
1.8.2. Con: [This town](https://news.vice.com/en_us/article/gykaq9/a-town-in-mexico-overthrew-their-local-government-things-couldnt-be-going-better) in Mexico is an example of a community which banished all police, politicians, criminals, and is now autonomously regulating itself through voluntary means.
1.8.2.1. Con: Forcing people to run for office, as in that Mexican town, is not individual liberty; it is enslavement of the former elite.
1.8.2.1.1. Con: In this situation, the public servants are actually just that - servants of the general public. Instead of seeking a powerful position by choice, the leaders are compelled to obey the will of the public at large. This seems to be preferable than other systems where politicians seek and strive for autocratic rule.
1.8.2.2. Con: Complete government abolishment, which has worked on the small scale for short periods, has shown no evidence of working just as effectively on a larger scale.
1.8.2.2.1. Con: If small scale & short duration governments have been shown to work, then that is the optimal size and scope of government. The government should be involved in the lives of its citizens as little as possible and as infrequently as possible.
1.8.3. Con: Human relationship works without being forced by government. Also by having no laws regulating human behavior, humans are more motivated to cooperate.
1.9. Pro: Government policy is carried out via violence and threats of violence, but violence is not an appropriate tool for dealing with most issues.
1.9.1. Pro: Despite the possibility of really bad decisions, [modern sociologists say](http://institut2080.cz/publikujeme/proc-je-masa-moudrejsi-nez-elity) any decision made by society is better than the decision made by the government. It is nearly impossible to separate politician from elitist, and elitists rarely think about real problems.
1.9.1.1. Con: Ideally, the government listens to society's demands and implements their needs; or else are voted out when they have failed to do so.
1.9.2. Con: Government policies in modern, Western democracies are carried out via institutions that have been established, legitimized, and maintained by the will of the people.
1.9.2.1. Con: Institutions are nothing else than words, but those words are forced onto people involuntarily and violently, because if you disagree, force is used against you.
1.9.2.2. Pro: A government is simply a more advanced version of [multiple societies](https://kailashafoundation.org/2017/03/12/distinction-between-society-nation-state-and-government/) working together.
1.9.2.3. Con: Will of the people \(in a democracy\) means only the majority of people \(at best\), and a majority of people have no right to dictate how the minority can live or what they need to spend money on.
1.9.2.3.1. Pro: Government laws are always an attempt to force something on someone against their will. Otherwise they would already be doing it, and no law would be necessary. Thus "the will of the people" only means the will of other people, for the victims of a law.
1.9.2.4. Con: The "will of the people" is a euphemism for the will of those with political power enforced on those who don't have political power. By definition, every law of the state is an imposition of will on the unwilling.
1.9.3. Con: Property owners enforce their will on their own property with violence, so they are no different than a government. If violence is not an appropriate tool for government, it is also not an appropriate tool for private property owners to use for the purpose of maintaining their property and rules.
1.9.4. Pro: It is hypocritical for a government that prohibits violence to enforce this prohibition through violence.
1.9.5. Con: It is possible to enforce laws non-violently.
1.9.5.1. Pro: Verbal criticism or praise can influence behaviors.
1.9.5.2. Pro: Pacifists can interrupt or prevent crimes.
1.9.6. Con: The majority of Government policy is enforced by threatening, or affecting, your pocket book and making life more inconvenient when the rules have not been followed. Government intervening physically is rare by contrast, in a first world country.
1.9.6.1. Pro: Violence is the only option after conversation and non-violent options have been exhausted.
1.10. Pro: People understand that cooperation gives better outcomes for everyone compared to confrontation. There is no need for the government to force people to cooperate.
1.10.1. Pro: -> See 1.8.2.
1.10.2. Con: Many people are selfish and do not take in consideration how the market affects other members of the community. Even people whom are not selfish often times do not consider the needs of others.
1.10.2.1. Con: Government intervention doesn't necessarily empower those who are unselfish over those who are selfish. If anything the desire to use government coercion to control others is more likely to attract the unethical than the ethical.
1.10.2.1.1. Pro: Throughout history, control over governments have overwhelmingly fallen into the hands those who are vicious and criminal by the standards of modern successful democracies.
1.10.2.2. Con: People have competing values. One person may invest money into animal-rights activism, a second into helping the poor, and a third into abortion-rights activism. Each may look selfish to the others. Who gets to decide? Only a tyrant.
1.10.3. Con: There is observable need for government intervention. Companies historically maximize profit at the expense of others until government intervention \(e.g. pollution\) and many violent/dangerous situations are intervened by police.
1.11. Pro: Any government's attempts to provide 'top-down', pre-meditated solutions for problems society might face are less optimal than 'bottom-up', spontaneously emerging solutions that result from free and voluntary interactions of individuals.
1.11.1. Con: It is difficult to give all voting citizens information needed to make comprehensive policy the way government does.
1.11.1.1. Con: People would not need to vote or make policy. Each individual best knows their own goals and needs. If voluntary and non-violent interaction is ensured, the solution that best balances everyone's goals and needs will emerge.
1.11.2. Pro: Providing people with employment in otherwise unnecessary public works diverts workers from other areas where they are needed more and would be employed more sustainable. \(H. Hazlitt, Economics in one lesson, [Chapter 4](http://steshaw.org/economics-in-one-lesson/chap04p1.html)\)
1.11.3. Pro: Governments claim to impose tariffs to protect domestic producers. In effect, tariffs raise the price of the good that they are imposed on, reducing how much can be spent on other goods, [and other unintended consequences](http://steshaw.org/economics-in-one-lesson/chap11p1.html).
1.11.4. Pro: Government can only govern large swaths of people at once, creating a single solution to a problem that is applied to a large population. However, each individual is unique and requires a unique solution in their own lives. Only when people are allowed to govern themselves, will these individually unique solutions be found and applied.
1.11.5. Con: If "optimal" is true then it would apply to other hierarchical structures like businesses that are run top down rather than bottom up and also without force or the threat of force.
1.11.5.1. Con: Businesses do not operate on a large enough scale to accurately be compared to nationwide policy.
1.11.5.2. Con: Businesses that arrive at solutions that don't solve the problems of their customers better than the competition or add value to the lives of their customers in another way will fail.There is no meaningful competition between governments and even failed governments hang on to power by force long after they should have been replaced.
1.11.5.3. Pro: When businesses fail, they go out of business. When government officials fail, they go out of office.
1.12. Con: Some personal issues are larger than an individual can resolve and requires a team effort \(sometimes on a worldwide-scale\), which is beyond libertarian values.
1.12.1. Pro: A libertarian government couldn’t take the authoritarian but necessary steps to confine people and mandate mask wearing in a pandemic.
1.12.2. Pro: There would be a significant number of people who are unable to provide for themselves without the help of the government. Ensuring that everyone has equal opportunity to lead a successful life will require the generosity of other individuals who are successful in their own lives to reach out and assist those who are struggling. It is difficult to see the state the world is in currently and imagine that there will be enough generous people to accomplish this.
1.12.2.1. Con: It is not ethical to force members of a society to be charitable against their will. A much more preferable outcome would be to convince people to be charitable by their own judgment.
1.12.2.1.1. Pro: Individuals whom are charitable by their own choice often give more yet are not forced to support causes they do not believe in.
1.12.3. Pro: Some issues are more efficient if solved using teamwork \(such as with a government intervening as a third-party handler\), where when one person's issue is solved, it can be applied to others instead of each person figuring out how to solve a problem on their own.
1.12.4. Con: Libertarian values don't exclude the possibility of team efforts on any scale, libertarian values rather stress that there should not be any forced cooperation.
1.12.4.1. Con: It is unrealistic to expect some people to willfully cooperate into a certain goal: you cannot politely ask coal facilities to shut down and let renewable energies to take place, therefore, for the safety of the planet, force is necessary.
1.13. Pro: LIbertarianism is more efficient, as there are less intermediary steps and requirements to get something done.
1.13.1. Pro: Libertarianism is more productive, as bureacracies can get in the way of progress.
1.13.2. Pro: Libertarianism may be more ecological, as governments use up lots of resources trying to predict what people want. If people just make what they need and nothing else, then there would be less waste with others guessing how much to make and get it wrong \(which ends up in the trash\).
1.14. Pro: Smaller governments would benefit world peace.
1.14.1. Pro: Standing armies would shrink both in size and in scope. No army would want to fight on any purely aggressive war. If not commanded by politicians, soldiers would only want to fight defensive wars. This is so because wars are normally waged because the interests of a few people - normally politicians and their friends, as in crony capitalism, or alternatively by totalitarian politicians, just because of their beliefs.
1.14.1.1. Con: This presumes contemporary western anti-war sentiments. Historically, people have been willing to go to an offensive war for glory, fame, wealth, or ideology. Arguably most modern cultures still do this, or would if not for UN\\NATO peacekeeping missions.
1.14.2. Con: Historically, the opposite has been true - rates of violence were [far higher](https://slides.ourworldindata.org/war-and-violence/#/2) in societies with weak, ineffective, or nonexistent governments.
1.15. Con: The government is needed to disincentive deals involving negative externalities.
1.15.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.1.1.
1.15.2. Pro: A non-interventionist government also fails to incentivise deals with positive externalities.
1.16. Con: Placing limits on the state's power can prevent it from advancing the common interests of its population.
1.16.1. Pro: The government is crucial to ensuring the rights of its citizens. People have certain human entitlements provision of which the state is responsible, along with protections against abuses of their rights.
1.16.1.1. Pro: Naturally, the needy are abandoned without the government acting as a guarantor of their rights. These people would find themselves struggling with burdens of heavy living costs, and these financial difficulties could carry into other aspects of daily life.
1.16.1.1.1. Pro: Without governmental institutions, the sick and poor would find themselves punished with hefty costs for things others can afford easily; it is unfair and immoral that they be given less of a chance at life than the wealthy.
1.16.1.1.1.1. Pro: Market solutions disproportionately reward people for meeting the whims of the wealthy, while failing to compensate people for alleviating the suffering of the poor. Government provided incentives can make it more profitable for people to alleviate suffering. Therefore for people who value human happiness, governmental intervention in some markets is desirable.
1.16.1.1.1.1.1. Pro: Vaccines have done an incredible amount of good \(e.g. eradicating smallpox\) without producing much profit for the developer. Government incentives helps making vaccine development economical.
1.16.2. Pro: Internal revolution, whether peaceful or violent, is always a threat to the durability of a state's power and its ability to promote its interests. Thus, a state is always to some extent accountable to its population.
1.16.3. Pro: Sovereignty is derived from the individuals that a state governs, who permit the state to exist.
1.16.3.1. Con: Individual citizens cannot opt out of the state, but are instead forced to pay taxes and live within the state. Therefore there is no permission from individual citizens, as they have no say in the effect of the state on their lives.