Discussion Name: The Political Compass: Pro and Contra

1. The original Political Compass is a useful tool.
1.1. Con: According to the test behind it, believing in authoritarian rulership is the same as being socially conservative and conformist, which is not always the case.
1.1.1. Pro: Someone can believe in strong governments, while also rejecting the values of the past and being very transgressive.
1.1.2. Con: While the test may be a good starting place, it is suggested widely that one not let a quiz determine their political leaning. It's more of a starting point, not to be treated as the end-all.
1.2. Pro: It's a lot more nuanced than the overly simple left-right spectrum, while still being readable and easy to look at.
1.2.1. Pro: If everybody knew about this model, it would remove the dogma that capitalists are inherently opressive or that socialists are inherently tyrannical.
1.3. Con: There are no scientific/universal units to quantify ideologies.
1.3.1. Con: This flaw is inherent to all similar charts used in political science. Thus, it is not an argument against the Political Compass in particular.
1.3.2. Con: Universal values can be established.
1.3.3. Con: The Political Compass is a tool to display results. It can not be held responsible for how these results are generated.
1.4. Con: It is still very simplified.
1.4.1. Pro: The model doesn't take into account religious or cultural values that often play a large role in determining a person's views.
1.4.1.1. Con: Questions about religion are part of the test attached to it.
1.4.1.2. Con: It does take into account, however, whether a society is individualistic or collectivist, which allows for conclusions about the culture.
1.4.2. Con: Even if it is fairly simple, it is still not as simple as a two point compass.
1.4.3. Pro: Simplicity is not desirable as it does not allow for the expression of nuance.
1.4.4. Pro: Due to the simple nature of the poliitical compass, it may not be able to encapsulate all political viewpoints.
1.5. Pro: Both social and economic information about a particular nation can be conveniently seen at a glance.
1.6. Con: 'Left' and 'right' are not only economic but also societal and political terms with different meanings. This can potentially lead to confusion.
1.6.1. Con: True, but the political compass is usually labelled "economic left" and "economic right", to avoid this.
1.6.2. Pro: Americans and Europeans often have diffrent definitions of 'left' and 'right'.
1.7. Con: The use of four categories is more complex than a simple left and right divison. It is thus less suitable for deploying in everyday conversation.
1.7.1. Con: It does not add any inconvenience to everyday speech, using two words, such as "left-libertarian" is not harder or longer to use such as "left".
1.7.1.1. Con: However, it requires a deeper understanding and knowledge of political terms.
1.7.2. Con: Convenience is a less important concern than accuracy.
1.8. Con: People with a mixture of left and right views are lumped into the centre, even if their views are complete opposites.
1.9. Con: The Political Compass may place individuals with seemingly moderate points of view into the middle even if they have some extreme points of view.
1.10. Pro: It clarifies that left wing vs. right wing is not the same as libertarian vs. authoritarian.
1.10.1. Con: Using a diagram to visually showcasing four ideologies doesn't explain what precisely makes these ideologies different.
1.10.2. Pro: This allows us to separate ideologies such as libertarian socialism and stalinism, as well as state-capitalism and laissez-faire.