Discussion Name: There should be no limit to freedom of speech.

1. There should be no limits on freedom of speech.
1.1. Pro: Censorship leads to narrow mindedness by preventing sincere and open discussion.
1.1.1. Pro: We need to teach people openness and tolerance, not forbid them from voicing their opinions.
1.1.1.1. Con: Therefore we should prohibit speech that promotes intolerance.
1.1.1.2. Con: The current understanding of political correctness is respecting people by not using offensive, harmful, or language that incites violence, so by being politically correct you are learning how to be open and tolerant.
1.1.1.3. Con: Tolerance is better learned when hate speech is outlawed, since that is the epitome of intolerance.
1.1.1.3.1. Con: Let hateful people say hateful things. Better than outlawing it is encouraging a society where people come to the defence of a victim of such a thing.
1.1.2. Con: Censoring yelling fire in a theater does not lead to narrow mindedness, conformism, or prevent sincere and open discussion, so this is not a defense of all speech.
1.1.3. Pro: Hearing counter arguments is more effective in fighting a harmful idea than just muting it.
1.1.3.1. Con: Not everyone can be convinced through rational argumentation.
1.1.3.1.1. Con: It is the role of government to ensure laws are created based on rational debate rather than majority rule.
1.1.3.1.2. Pro: Sometimes people are unreasonable, are unwilling to argue, or can't hear you.
1.1.3.1.3. Pro: People are not always logical. Speech that preys on a distrust of research and is emotionally manipulative can sway a large population and inspire actions far faster than logical argument can dismantle it.
1.1.3.2. Con: It is not more effective to argue about whether there is a fire in the theater than to ban yelling that there is one when the person yelling it knows it isn't so.
1.1.3.3. Con: It is often the case that the loudest, most shocking opinions are pushed to the top.
1.1.3.3.1. Con: Some opinions are loud and shocking and they are frowned upon by society in general. Opinions that move to the top must reflect the opinions or beliefs of a sizable portion of society and likely have a hint of truth to them.
1.1.3.4. Pro: Progress is made through the free expression of ideas.
1.1.4. Con: Many kinds of speech, such as extremist speech, are, themselves, narrow minded. Preventing such speech would promote a dialogue that is more pluralistic and nuanced.
1.1.5. Pro: Listening to other people’s point of view and devoting time and attention to understand contrarian points of view helps to develop and evolve our own thinking, philosophies and moral compass. If we only tune in to rhetoric that we already view as “true” then the evolution of our critical thinking will be negatively impacted and our hopes of finding a socially acceptable middle ground in order to move forward together in a similar direction will not be possible.
1.1.6. Con: Harassment and bullying prevent sincere and open discussion by excluding people from the debate.
1.1.7. Con: This is only true of very extreme censorship. All democracies have some censorship yet are still the most plural and free thinking societies.
1.1.7.1. Con: Speech and thought in these societies would be freer and more pluralistic if there were yet fewer restrictions on speech.
1.1.8. Con: Narrow-mindedness is the cause of censorship, not its effect.
1.1.8.1. Con: It can be a cause as well as an effect.
1.1.8.2. Con: If people only have access to a set of information, then they will be forever ignorant of what is being hidden from them. So they will be narrow minded, as a result.
1.1.9. Pro: Limits on freedom of speech diminish our humanity. It suggests that people will be unable to make good decisions, and it does not give the opportunity for people to make good decisions with the information we are given.
1.1.9.1. Con: Limits on speech may refine information so that the resulting speech, and information, are more accurate. From more accurate information, better decisions can be made.
1.1.10. Pro: Hateful ideologies will be spread no matter what. It is safer to allow them into public discourse so they can be easily debunked, otherwise they will appear the victim and gain more sympathy.
1.1.10.1. Con: There's no guarantee that public discourse will be structured enough to prevent misinformation from gaining momentum among larger groups of people.
1.1.10.2. Con: The spread of hateful ideology will be limited by making it illegal. Perfect should not be the enemy of good.
1.1.10.3. Con: Any intolerant speech should be banished because, [if a society is tolerant without limit, its ability to be tolerant will eventually be seized or destroyed by the intolerant.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance)
1.1.10.4. Pro: Making certain opinions and attitudes a crime to articulate does not get rid of the opinions and attitudes, it simply allows them to continue unchallenged. People holding these opinions and attitudes will still vote. They need to be allowed to say it so that it can be a part of discussion and highlight the scale of the views generally deemed unfavourable. Censoring dissenting or aggressive views is an admission that such a view might win in an honest discussion.
1.1.10.4.1. Con: Making those ideologies illegal clearly challenges them by stating that society considers them harmful.
1.1.11. Pro: Restrictions on freedom of speech can be used to censor good and helpful ideas.
1.1.11.1. Pro: It is too easy to ban any dissident opinion by labelling it offensive.
1.1.12. Pro: Political correctness around speech has been gaining ground. This is harmful as it might stop people from addressing issues because they're afraid to insult/hurt an individual or group, even when they actually want to raise awareness to a genuine problem.
1.1.12.1. Pro: Being unable to merely ask the question leaves one unable to solve problems whose solutions depend on finding the answer to said question.
1.1.12.2. Con: The idea of political correctness is simply the idea of treating other people with respect, and it has been exaggerated by people who have a difficult time being respectful towards others.
1.1.12.2.1. Con: President Obama and [68% of American voters](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/23/opinion/trump-obama-and-the-assault-on-political-correctness.html) agree that political correctness has gone too far. It's a difficult argument to make to say all of those people have a hard time respecting others.
1.1.12.3. Con: Political correctness has been around since at least as early as 1934, when the [New York Times reported](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_correctness) that Nazi Germany was granting reporting permits "only to pure ‘Aryans’ whose opinions are politically correct.""
1.1.13. Con: No limit on speech would allow irrational arguments and lies that may forbid followers to listen to rational argument, because it is deceptive, thus calling for and leading to hurtful action against others. [Paradox of intolerance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance) - Karl Poper
1.2. Con: Speech can cause psychological, material and sometimes physical harm to people who did not ask to be subjected to it, and should therefore be restricted by law and technology.
1.2.1. Pro: There should be reasonable limits on what someone can say i.e. if your speech causes direct harm to someone, you should be held responsible - it is a judge's call and responsibility to decide how and when a law is applied.
1.2.1.1. Pro: There are speeches that are objectively harmful for society or for groups of people, like Nazi speech. Where you draw the line, however, is always a political choice.
1.2.2. Pro: Force is defined as that which compels by physical or psychological means, therefore speech is a form of use of force. By the same token, uses of force are on a continuum of reciprocal escalation and would necessitate responsible use in a peaceful society. Speech as a form of force would then require limitations in order to prevent abuse.
1.2.3. Con: Unwanted actions are better to be banned by specifically banning the action itself. If it is harm or offense or whatever and society deems those things worthy of banning then ban them. Banning speech invariably ends up causing collateral damage in other areas because it is a broader category than the individual action you wish to ban. It is likely that you would not only ban the unwanted action but other useful/necessary/wanted actions in the process.
1.2.4. Con: Any speech that can incite harm is just the vocalization of an idea that can still inspire harm, by censoring words you prevent any reasoned response.
1.2.5. Con: Sticks and stones. The only point at which speech becomes remotely dangerous is direct, incitement of violence.
1.2.6. Pro: Individuals have a right to protect their good name and business reputation against falsehoods spread maliciously that causes them financial harm. Current laws on defamation rightly limit speech to protect this.
1.2.6.1. Con: Law on defamation doesn't limit speech, but punishes falsehoods told to gain any kind of disloyal advantage.
1.2.6.1.1. Con: Punishing falsehoods is limiting speech.
1.2.7. Con: Speech should not be restricted based on the idea that someone may have their feelings hurt. If laws were based only on the psychological harm it deals to the emotionally fragile there will eventually be no liberty at all. No matter what is said it could be considered emotionally damaging to another person.
1.2.8. Con: "May cause harm" is not a strong enough reason to ban speech. Harm is intrinsic, and prerequisite, to being alive.
1.2.9. Pro: You should not be allowed to cause physical harm with free speech \(e.g. shouting "FIRE!" in a crowded theater where there is no fire\).
1.2.9.1. Con: The issue is not the speech itself, as a play about pirates may have a scene where the captain yells "Fire." It is the alternative laws surrounding the content of the message that makes it illegal.
1.2.9.2. Con: Yelling "fire" in a theatre isn't a crime to do with speech, but rather an action of creating a public hazard, or criminal mischief. A patron can "say" what they want, but when they start yelling and motioning hysterically, it's the actions causing the crime.
1.2.9.3. Con: Words do not cause physical harm. The example you provided would be inciting mass hysteria, not harming a person physically.
1.2.10. Pro: No limit would mean that defamation/slander would not be punished. People could spread lies to damage someone's reputation.
1.2.10.1. Pro: There is nothing valuable gained by allowing intentionally false libellous speech with the intent to damage individuals.
1.2.10.2. Pro: With no limit, and no recourse inside the legal system, it would be quite easy to ruin a regular person's life for a few thousand dollars -- with just a little false information and a few made up stories about how s/he is, for example, a pedophile, or that someone who's livelihood depends upon trust, violated that trust in another state where no one can really check on those facts.
1.2.10.2.1. Pro: Without legal recourse in libel law there is no other way to prevent these harms.
1.2.11. Pro: A pen can be mightier than a sword: death threats, harassment, and online abuse can lead to mental issues.
1.2.11.1. Con: If people never have to face these challenges then they won't develop the thick skin necessary to survive out in the world.
1.2.11.1.1. Con: It is thick skinned not to produce purely negative comments. Not to be able to hear them without reaction, much less with a physical response.
1.2.11.1.2. Pro: A society's laws should not be formed around the emotional state of its weakest members.
1.2.11.1.3. Con: Having a "thick skin" [does nothing to deter would-be abusers](https://mahealthyworkplace.wordpress.com/2016/12/07/study-shows-growing-a-thick-skin-and-confronting-a-workplace-bully-does-absolutely-nothing-most-of-the-time/). Laws are required to delegitimise anti-social behaviour.
1.2.11.1.4. Con: Being harassed will never help someone do something or become strong.
1.2.11.2. Con: All the actions above are already illegal in most US states and in each, the intent of the speaker is integral to the definition of each crime, as well as the understanding that the "victim" may have simply misunderstood what was being said.
1.2.11.3. Con: The possibility that mental issues \(or a predisposition\) can be present before any harassment or bullying occurs can't be ruled out. Therefore it can't be said that such speech inevitably leads to mental issues.
1.2.11.3.1. Con: The mental status of a recipient has no bearing on the acceptability of harassment/bullying in any form, as it is purely negative, and therefore morally repugnent. Additionally there is no way to determine anyone doesn't have 'mental issues' and most crop up from scarring/traumatic life events, not always a predisposition. No person 'deserves' to be bullied.
1.3. Pro: There should be no limits to freedom of speech as [everyone has a right to voice their opinions](https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of-human-rights)(Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.) and this right should not be taken away from them or limited.
1.4. Con: "The amount of energy needed to refute bullsh*t is an order of magnitude larger than is needed to produce it." - [Brandolini's law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brandolini%27s_law). It is not economically viable to allow people to spread misinformation and clean up after them as the clean up will always cost more than the spread.
1.4.1. Con: We do not need to demand that innocents perform clean up, only the ones responsible for spreading the misinformation.
1.5. Pro: The opposite of free speech is blasphemy laws which prohibit the expression of dissent from the \(quasi-\)religious doctrines of those in power.
1.5.1. Pro: Many Christian or Moslem countries have or had blasphemy laws. According to Wikipedia, [blasphemy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blasphemy) was an offence in English law that was only removed in 2008.
1.6. Con: The law should prohibit speech which incites violence.
1.6.1. Con: The state as the arbiter and owner of Law frequently calls its citizens to violence. The distinction between state sanctioned violence and terrorism is arbitrary.
1.6.2. Con: If the people in power would be in control of limiting freedom of speech, they could use their power to suppress any kind of speech that would go against their agendas.
1.6.3. Con: When people can no longer be held accountable  for their own actions there can be no rule of law. If one man speaks and another man pulls a trigger, one is a speaker, the other a murderer. To hold the speaker accountable for the actions of others -- people who he may not even know  -- is to claim The Beatles are responsible for the Manson Family murders and would make Orson Wells a criminal.
1.6.3.1. Con: Organising an assassination is an example of speech which is in some way accountable for murder. Coercion or threats of violence to encourage third-party violence are another example.
1.6.3.2. Con: The person who pulled the trigger is not relieved of accountability just because there were other people involved. In fact, rule of law deals with this perfectly well, by dividing cases like this into individual trials.
1.6.4. Con: Context and intent matter when defining incitement to violence. A threat can be made in jest and it may not even reach anyone that it would impact. The intent and the size of the immediate crowd being spoken to, matter when defining incitement to violence.
1.6.5. Pro: Directly encouraging violent acts with the use language will unavoidably cause these particular acts to actually happen.
1.6.6. Con: There is Civil liability for anyone whose speech or actions cause harm or violence to anyone. The actions causing the harm or violence are also illegal.
1.6.7. Con: Incitement to violence is a direct contradiction of liberal values and does not constitute free speech as it limits other people's freedom to speech.
1.6.8. Pro: The law should prohibit "calls to action" which encourage people to act in a violent way towards any person.
1.6.8.1. Con: As there may be a very thin line between "calls to action" and speech that does not incite violence, law enforcement should be very cautious not to infringe on the speaker's free speech rights, and only act when there is substantial proof of imminent violence.
1.6.8.2. Con: One is never directly forced to do anything just by hearing ideas being spoken.
1.6.9. Con: The intent of speech is what matters, though. We have to ask whether the person intended to incite violence.
1.6.9.1. Con: Content or context would matter more than intention.
1.7. Pro: The only way to beat bad, threatening or offensive ideas is to shine the brightest light on them possible and let the world see them for what they are.
1.7.1. Pro: Our [general knowledge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_knowledge) is the legacy which we rely on and improve upon. There is no point in banning any speech because it is the very goal to speak/communicate and evaluate. [Openness to experience](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Openness_to_experience) is crucial.
1.7.2. Con: Making them illegal would certainly do that.
1.7.2.1. Con: The law outlines a boundary within which we are comfortable - we make sure people know it, so they can stay inside. But we don't follow orders, we make up our own minds. We shall promote comprehension and share resources before we make our threats.
1.7.2.2. Con: If it was illegal they would still have that opinion. The best way to change them is to have them easily debunked in a open environment because if we don't the other side could be true. What if the government banned liberals from being allowed to say anything bad about Trump because it was "hate speech". You would riot at the streets.
1.7.3. Con: It is possible to refute arguments without allowing them to be repeated outside the context of rebuttal. See Germany's anti-fascism rules, for example.
1.7.3.1. Con: One's rebuttal might not be enough since anyone can simply disagree. It is imperative that we may attempt to understand an underlaying reasoning.
1.7.3.2. Pro: There are no examples of arguments that can not be expressed without the use of fascist symbols, abuse, or threatening speech.
1.7.3.3. Con: Germany's anti-fascism rules are dictatorial in their own right, and hence indistinguishable from the kind of censorship and propaganda which make fascism undesirable.
1.7.3.3.1. Con: German laws are voted on in The Bundestag. Legislative bills, or the amendment of existing bills can be put to the vote by [either The Bundestag itself or The Federal Government](https://www.bundestag.de/en/parliament/function/legislation/passage-245704). [All members of The Bundestag are elected by the german people every four years](https://www.bundestag.de/en/parliament/elections/election_mp-245694). The German President can [veto any law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Germany#:~:text=of%20the%20law-,All%20federal%20laws%20must%20be%20signed%20by%20the%20president%20before,past%20presidents%20handled%20their%20power.), but The President themselves are elected. Therefore no part of the process to create or amend German laws is dictatorial.
1.8. Pro: Isolated speech has zero capacity to inflict physical harm.
1.8.1. Con: Speech can inflict emotional harm.
1.8.1.1. Con: As can any subject when anyone relies on the rehtorical construct which is being attacked.
1.8.2. Pro: Insofar as it is not directly responsible for physical violence, it should not be censored.
1.8.2.1. Pro: This remains so even in cases where those who are offended choose to incite violent action of their own volition.
1.8.3. Con: Isolated speech can incite people to be aggressive even if it's isolated.
1.8.3.1. Con: It is also the listener's responsibility to evaluate and filter what is received.
1.8.3.1.1. Pro: Communication is a complex mechanism that enables implicit messages, polymorphic meanings, multi-context, etc. Its level of significance, if only as a tool of survival, is arguably matched solely by how abstract it can get. It will never surrender to any form of censorship.
1.8.3.1.1.1. Con: Censorship may be used to suppress certain ideas.
1.8.4. Con: Shouting into someone's ear can cause pain.
1.9. Con: There is no clear divide between speech and action. Some speech is, in practical terms, an action. 'If you kill my wife I will pay you £10k' is simply a series of vocalised words. Yet it's also the commissioning of a serious crime.
1.9.1. Con: In this case, the crime is not a matter of free speech but rather being an accessory to murder. The person has the right to say something like this, but doing it would be illegal.
1.9.1.1. Con: This argument is analogous to saying that you have the right to steal from someone, but doing so would be illegal. If a certain act of speech is recognised as criminal, then it's not free. This kind of speech is censored under laws regarding murder. Ergo, there is no clear divide between speech and action.
1.9.2. Con: The problem with this example is the sincerity of the statement. It could be said in jest or a legitimate threat, or even in between. However if no action is taken on this statement than it would become meaningless anyway.
1.9.3. Con: The clear divide is between what can reasonably be described as a direct call to action, like your example, and what cannot. Any violent action will consistently be indirectly caused by an almost infinite amount of utterances, hence why, in case there were no direct calls or hirings, the entire legal responsibility should fall on the actor.
1.9.4. Con: Think of that: if this murder proposal is done openly, there's a chance that law enforcement can avoid the commitment of the crime. Also, there'a a chance that the wife flees before being murdered. If the proposal is done behind closed doors then it's a bigger problem.
1.9.4.1. Con: If free speech is absolute then the police couldn’t do anything about the murder proposal, and just because it’s legal doesn’t mean anyone is stupid enough to discuss it in front of the person they’re planning to kill.
1.9.4.1.1. Con: The police could do nothing about the proposal being *expressed*, yet they could act to avoid the *commitment* of the crime it expresses. The stupidity is not an issue here, as we are discussing hypothetical, abstract possibilities.
1.9.4.1.1.1. Con: The police don’t have the manpower to follow around every single potential murder, no matter how hypothetical, and nobody plots a murder in front of the victim, no matter how made up the scenario.
1.9.5. Con: The example is more likely to be a "private chat", which cannot be limited, it isn't an issue of freedom of speech what two people agree between themselves.
1.9.5.1. Con: There are a great deal of laws that limit what can be said in a private chat, in this case conspiracy to commit a crime.
1.9.6. Con: The example above could be said as a joke, we have no context to imply intent.
1.9.6.1. Con: If free speech is unlimited, there is no crime in the above scenario. You are legally allowed to hire someone to kill your wife.
1.9.7. Con: The action would be the actual paying of money. Without the exchange of money there is no proof that the person truly wanted their wife dead.
1.9.8. Pro: The example above is a fraudulent contract, in which two people negotiate the destruction of something not owned by the either party. Fraud should be the limit of free speech.
1.9.8.1. Con: The second you said those words, you're effectively becoming complicit in the destruction, meaning that is the law you broke, which doesn't regulate the freedom of speech.
1.10. Con: Limitless freedom of speech is impossible.
1.10.1. Pro: There are legitimate reasons to keep some information out of the public domain, which means limiting the ability to talk about it.
1.10.1.1. Pro: No limit on speech would mean no protection of state secrets.
1.10.1.1.1. Con: States unable to cloak themselves in secrecy would have more incentive to behave responsibly. Whistleblowers encourage good behavior in institutions, whether public or private.
1.10.2. Pro: There must be limitations. Such as copyright; an author must be allowed a monopoly on his creation.
1.10.2.1. Con: Intellectual property should not exist; correspondingly, freedom of speech should indeed supersede copyright protection.
1.10.3. Pro: Censorship of some speech is necessary for the free speech of others.
1.10.3.1. Pro: A complete level means that someone has the right to yell over the top of someone, however then the person they are yelling over would then not have full freedom of speech.
1.10.3.2. Pro: Political correctness enables free speech for those that would be attacked personally otherwise.
1.10.3.2.1. Pro: Stating that women are more acting in the realm of emotions rather than logic, unlike men, discredits the ideas of women in a one-on-one debate. Using PC language means not discrediting the other person for what they are but listening to what they say. This improves discourse.
1.10.3.2.1.1. Pro: The more emotionally-minded are still capable of logic; just as the more logically-minded are still capable of emotion.
1.10.3.2.2. Pro: A mindset that Black people are inferior will discredit ideas by African Americans.
1.10.3.2.2.1. Con: This is not a common mindset. This is called being a racist, and voicing opinions like this will get you stigmatized and scorned.
1.10.3.2.2.1.1. Con: While it may be scorned, it doesn't follow that it isn't a common mindset.
1.10.3.2.2.1.2. Con: Being stigmatized and scorned for unacceptable opinions is the whole point of political correctness
1.10.3.2.2.1.2.1. Con: PC scorns people for expressing "bad" beliefs, but not for having them, or even acting in accordance with them.
1.10.3.2.2.2. Con: Free speech does not constitute that you have to believe what you hear.
1.10.3.2.2.2.1. Con: That seems like a fairly privileged stance to take. We must consider the millions of people who receive substandard education, or have intellectual deficits, or for whatever other reason are less equipped to discern what is true and what is prejudiced propaganda.
1.10.3.2.2.2.2. Con: Not believing what you hear doesn't stop other people from believing what they hear.
1.10.3.2.2.3. Con: Only among people who share that mindset. Censoring discussions does not keep racists from being dismissive. And I'd rather know who the people are, who are dumb enough to believe in racism.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1. Con: Allowing people to insult, harass, and stereotype other people in the open helps the harassment spread.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1. Pro: The Nazis' ideas got out in the open where they could be combated. Then they got elected.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.1. Pro: Unfortunately, allowing bigots to say whatever they like doesn't mean they can be 'defeated in verbal combat'. Often, the opposite is more the case.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.1.1. Pro: The nature of extremist and fanatic views is that they are not easily changed by civil discourse, because the premises of such discourse are denied in the first place by way of using insults, stating facts without providing evidence, outright denying other positions without crafting a counter-argument, evading questions by acting hurt etc.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.1.1.1. Con: It is true that it is difficult to change the mind of a fanatic. It is *not*, however, difficult to allow the fanatic to sell the *opposite* point of view to others through the obvious stupidity of this self-same fanatic. The great thing about fanatics is their lack of self-awareness. Put another way, idiotic ideas on clear display, will sell a saner alternative. Stupidity has very few selling points for the average person, same with bigotry.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Unhindered free speech would allow hate speech. Exposure to hate speech [increases](https://psmag.com/social-justice/how-hate-speech-boosts-bigotry-and-intolerance) people's prejudices. Demagogues [gain popularity in a democracy by exploiting prejudice among the common people](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demagogue).
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.1.1.2. Con: Denying the premises of civil discourse does not create a convincing argument. You might not convince an irrational fanatic, but you will show the weakness of their ideas. Dismissing them fails to show the weakness of their ideas.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.1.2. Pro: Fanatics do not care what you can prove or debate: [engaging with them is how their views are popularised](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/12/5/18125507/milo-yiannopoulos-debt-no-platform). The objective is to not let disenfranchised, vulnerable people be radicalized into what appears to other people as completely ludicrous ideas.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.1.2.1. Con: The article discusses how censoring people can prevent them from spreading their ideas, and expresses the unsupported opinion that two people deserved censorship for being reactionary. It does not address the claim that engaging in reasoned debate with fanatics popularizes their views. Censorship does not differentiate good ideas from bad ones: debate does.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.1.3. Con: If society cannot defeat a bigot in a fair debate, then it is time to change approach. Shooting down ideas as patently unintelligent and provably uninformed as bigotry should be like shooting "fish in a barrel".
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.1.4. Con: You probably can't convince the bigot they're wrong, but you can show that their arguments have no basis in reality, which is convincing to any intelligent observer. A bigot only "wins in verbal combat" if no intelligent observer is present.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.2. Con: The Nazis’ ideas could emphatically not be openly challenged - due to some of the most extreme political censorship of free speech in history. A compelling lesson to not censor speech if ever one existed.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.2.1. Con: This is an irrelevant equivocation. It's completely disingenuous to draw an equivalence between the book burning and media control policies of the Nazis, and encouraging the use of politically correct language. The parent comment observed that they were elected on a platform where they could say whatever fascist, bigoted things they wanted.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.2.2. Con: Political censorship by nazis took place *[after](https://www.ushmm.org/propaganda/timeline/1918-1932/)* the nazis were elected. Freedom of speech got them elected.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.3. Pro: Populist statements and viewpoints appeal to people's emotions which is in direct conflict with rational thought. You cannot beat fear- or anger-based propaganda with logic.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.3.1. Pro: There have been popular [false accusations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_correctness#False_accusations) of PC causing changes.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.4. Con: Comparing Germany, which was in a complete state of disarray after the stock market crash and the effects of the treaty of Versailles, with modern day western countries is a false equivalence.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.4.1. Con: [Modern western countries have been unsettled due to perceived poor economic conditions and majority reactions to racial and ethnic issues. Ethnocentric politics are increasingly attractive to westerners.](http://harvardpolitics.com/world/rise-of-far-right/)
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.1.5. Con: Mere Political Correctness would not have helped here. It would be like "taking a knife to a gun fight". One could argue that the Nazis became Politically Correct after a while as they censored speech, education and Art much like conservative right and progressive left PC parties do today. Political Correctness is relative to who is in power and not inherently liberal.
1.10.3.2.2.3.1.2. Con: Engaging someone in a rational discussion of their views does more to challenge them than to just dismiss their argument by saying they're mean for expressing it. Harassment only spreads in an environment where spectators find insults convincing, which happens when they are unaccustomed to reasoned debate: it's the environment PC creates.
1.10.3.2.3. Pro: PC culture supports terminology designed to ensure groups typically deflected, discouraged, or emotionally and psychologically harmed by improper terminology are welcomed to discourse, thereby encouraging discourse by removing linguistic ad hominem.
1.10.3.2.3.1. Con: Because everyone has a different perception of what can be said, political correctness tends to silence people. People do not speak because they fear hurting someone's feelings.
1.10.3.2.3.1.1. Con: Promoting carefulness when talking about delicate topics and making people fear that they could hurt someone's feelings helps to ensure that marginalized groups are welcomed to discourse.
1.10.3.2.3.1.1.1. Con: This tactic fails where two marginalized groups are ideologically opposed to each other and one of them must be defended against the other.
1.10.3.2.3.1.1.2. Con: This "carefulness" can be seen as condescending and patronizing. To give full dignity to someone, one needs to consider honesty. It is insulting to gloss over someone's flaws to protect their feelings as one would with a child.
1.10.3.2.3.2. Con: Attempting to remove linguistic ad hominem across the board, for all people, in all situations, at all times, by creating a comprehensive set of acceptable and unacceptable words and phrases, and an enforcement mechanism \(presumably, legislation\), is a horrifying idea.
1.10.3.2.4. Con: Attacks are part of free speech. Using science and logic to debunk these attacks has more value than dismissing them on the basis that you don't like them.
1.10.3.2.4.1. Con: Attacks are part of free speech, but they are meaningless in discourse and serve only to distract from the topic at hand. Political correctness dismisses them allowing for meaningful conversation to continue. It doesn't mean that it is illegal to attack another person, only that the attacks will not be allowed to take over the discourse.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1. Con: There is no consensus on what constitutes political correctness. Therefore, any speech could be considered potentially unacceptable.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.1. Pro: What is civilized and acceptable in public discourse is fluid and changes geographically, by group, by topic. There’s no way to have a universal “Political correctness”.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.1.1. Con: Those affected by non-PC expression typically tell you, and have spoken for ages, about certain words, phrases, or images which inherently disparage them.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.1.2. Con: Political correctness in itself is always subject of public discourse and changing across regions and communities. There is no need for a "universal" political correctness.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.1.3. Con: The idea of political correctness is not a fixed set of rules, but a continuously developing consensus of what is offensive and what isn't. Although people might disagree on the details, most people in one country / culture could name something that is generally viewed as improper or hateful to say in their particular culture.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.1.3.1. Pro: The [cancel culture](https://www.insider.com/cancel-culture-meaning-history-origin-phrase-used-negatively-2020-7) movement has shown that even within the same country/culture, some speeches are collectively seen as offensive and therefore 'canceled.'
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2. Pro: What one considers insulting is subjective. The issue that most people have with political correctness is that people's viewpoints can be considered insulting if they put something in a negative light. Even if that viewpoint is based on valid facts
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.1. Con: If we can agree that there is certain language which is so unnecessarily insulting that it has no place in civilized discourse, then we have moved from 'is political correctness necessary?' to 'what level of political correctness is necessary?'
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.1.1. Con: We already have this in the form of common courtesy.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.1.1.1. Con: Common courtesy becomes less common when members of an 'other' group are involved. While PC culture can go too far, it is often the thing that people complain about when you try to make them show 'common courtesy' to people who are in a group that they don't like, whether based upon sexual orientation, skin color, religion, or politics.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.1.1.1.1. Con: While the extent of common courtesy can be discussed one would usually equate it with polite and showing manners, if one doesn't do this then one isn't showing common courtesy.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.1.2. Con: Someone's viewpoint being considered offensive does not mean that their viewpoint is worded in a non-PC way.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.2. Con: While there are people who use the banner of PC to prevent ideas from being communicated and examined, it is equally true that certain language is used to prevent ideas from being communicated and examined by replacing them with conflict.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.2.1. Con: This is a stalemate where neither side justifies the use of the opposite extreme. The problem that we have is that political correctness is not something that people equate with equality but instead equate with censorship. This might not be a valid assumption for people to make, but due to the fact that political correctness does not have a singular goal the opposite cannot be proven.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.3. Pro: It does not necessarily have to be "put in a negative light". The statement or action just has to be perceived as offensive.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.3.1. Pro: The term microaggression captures this idea. This concept makes it possible to say something in good faith, with no bad intent ...but still be perceived as aggressive or offensive. The standard for offense is not external and societal but could conceivably exist at the individual level.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.4. Con: Even if it can not be done perfectly, avoiding insults is always a good idea. Enlightening people about their unintended insults is necessary. Banning or eliminating PC would also eliminate any way for a person to learn that they are being insulting.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.4.1. Con: Replacing the term "Political Correctness", which is saddled with an ambiguous and checkered definitional past, with less divisive terms, like "civility", "human dignity", "respect", puts the *practice* and *policies* of PC back on solid common ground.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.4.1.1. Con: In the world of political correctness, the concepts of "respect" and "human dignity" seem only to extend to members of certain protected groups, while persons not claiming membership to these groups are frequently subjected to degrading and slanderous personal attacks based on miffed feelings rather than objective fact.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.4.2. Con: Some people consider facts to be insulting \(e.g. some devotee who finds the idea of evolution audacious\) thus enlightening them about potential insults is nearly impossible.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.4.3. Con: What is considered "enlightening people" to the speaker can be interpreted as ["scolding"](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/pride-and-joy/201203/criticism-part-i-the-harmfulness-criticism-0) to the listener. [Scolding has psychological impacts similar to insult.](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/stuck/201202/how-survive-being-scolded)
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.2.4.4. Pro: Given the [psychological effects of insults](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2018/02/28/what-microaggressions-small-slights-serious-consequences/362754002/), making an effort to avoid insulting language where possible is morally responsible.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.3. Con: There is no consensus on what constitutes political correctness. Therefore removing political correctness could result in anything, no matter how outrageous, inflammatory and offensive, being considered perfectly reasonable.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.3.1. Con: Social norms change over time due to cultural/social pressures. If, for the purposes of this discussion, participants insist on \(re\)defining "Political Correctness" as an umbrella term for these social pressures ...it is certainly not clear how one could "remove" these pressures. Social pressures do not occur in a vacuum, but occur naturally and will remain after the movements and labels have died. Likewise for any backlash. We do not summon decency through incantations.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.3.2. Con: Removing political correctness does not remove common decency. In fact it could help common decency, because people with certain conflicting views could be heard by others, and others could then help change their views.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.3.2.1. Pro: In some toxic environments, creating a language protocol to ease tensions can help parties gain understanding. John Gottman discusses this in his research on marriage: [...they will find ways to express their needs and concerns respectfully without criticizing or blaming their partner.](https://www.gottman.com/blog/the-top-7-ways-to-improve-your-marriage/)
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.3.3. Con: It makes no sense to suggest that we ought not to remove political correctness if we haven't even defined it yet.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.3.3.1. Pro: Without defining what PC is, we would not know what to ban, so we could not ban it.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.4. Con: We are constantly learning new things about people who have historically been denied a chance to express themselves or defend their own rights, and rather than get exasperated that there's always more to learn, that the "parameters are constantly shifting" we could be humble, and realistic, and acknowledge that there are so many people getting their first turn at the mic and they have been waiting a heck of a long time to speak. Patiently. It's not that complicated or difficult to just listen.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.5. Pro: The term "political correctness" encompasses two main urges -- one constructive, and one destructive. Using language to more accurately reflect the full dignity of historically marginalized people is good and right. Enforcing the idea that fixing our language will fix our injustices doesn't work and alienates potential allies who don't "know the lingo".
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.5.1. Con: It is the responsibility of allies to listen and learn from minority groups what they require. If one doesn't "know the lingo" then one's first reaction should be to inquire and learn, not lead the conversation.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.5.2. Con: Fixing our language alone will not fix all the systemic injustices throughout our culture. However, correcting language can be an entrypoint for people to learn more about--and thus start to fix--those systemic injustices.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.5.2.1. Con: Similarly, people might be aggravated and think of it as injustice that they have to change their speech
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.5.3. Con: If being corrected "alienates" a person then how would that person ever learn anything at school? If a person's purpose is to communicate something, then the use of insults would defeat that purpose. If the insult is a mistake, then being informed about the mistake or corrected is the proper support for learning. If communicated in a civil way, there should be no reason for a person to be alienated.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.5.4. Pro: Some people use PC terms as a form of [gatekeeping](https://medium.com/\@kyrianne/leftbook-we-need-to-talk-3991558e25d8), to bully or ban a speaker from online groups if the speaker uses a term without realizing it's a slur.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6. Con: Many people know what political correctness is, it's just that anti-PC groups lie about [what](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_correctness#False_accusations) political correctness is to deceive people who don't check for themselves into believing a fallacy.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.1. Con: "Political Correctness" was not adopted from within a particular group, but is a term coined from without. By its nature, PC is not meant to be complimentary. Contrast this with the "Black Panthers" or the name of a sports team. These are names adopted by a group to represent their beliefs or their team.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.1.1. Pro: A Venn diagram based on usage of the term would necessarily include bad behaviors and speech as well as good. Adherents can't lay exclusive claim to the term as they did not themselves invent or originally coin the term. A definitional stalemate.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.1.2. Pro: When the enemy chooses the term and the term is unclear from the outset, it is a fool's errand to try and correct the enemy on his/her/their definition. Better to set a good example and let history be the judge.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.1.2.1. Pro: Because the term is defined from without, guilt by association can be used against a group claiming PC values. An outsider can easily find a negative example and paint the entire group in a negative light through association. For this reason, groups generally prefer to define and control their own labels, terms and titles.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.1.2.2. Pro: The optimal advance is to defend a specific practice, policy or behavior. Ex. If one believes strongly in Canada's Bill C16, for instance, it should be defended on merit and association to commonly held values \( Eg., Equality, respect \). Racist speech is a terrible and shameful practice and should be fiercely opposed based on values *not* by saying it is, "Not PC". This grossly demeans and detracts from equality, equity, liberty and other values civilized societies were founded upon.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.1.2.2.1. Pro: If one were to hear a racist joke, say, and this person then condemns the joke -- aforementioned ersatz comedian then says, "You're just being politically correct!". The optimal response might be to condemn the joke based on common values of dignity, equality and illustrate the way it erodes a free society rather than try to enter into a debate on how PC includes moral behavior around race and equality -- better to just go for the gold and cut out the definitional middle man.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.1.3. Pro: It could be argued that the term was a strawman from the beginning, designed to malign forces against political foes or imply that a politician was dissembling or lying for political motives. A backhanded compliment, if even a compliment at all.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.2. Pro: In recent years, there are often false or exaggerated claims of something PC attacking holidays.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.2.1. Pro: It is [claimed](https://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/christmas/santa-claus-should-be-female-or-gender-neutral-according-to-nearly-a-third-of-people-survey-reveals/news-story/41f2c58d69d4feadbf1e3834e1ce4233) that people want Santa to be female or gender neutral, when in fact a tabloid asked people a barely related question and interpreted so they could [lie](https://junkee.com/santa-gender-neutral-story/187123) [about](https://startsat60.com/discover/news/dont-worry-santa-claus-is-not-becoming-person-christmas) people wanting a female or gender neutral Santa.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.2.2. Pro: [Right wing](https://www.spiked-online.com/2019/02/18/we-need-to-stop-calling-it-political-correctness/) groups keep falsely insisting that PC is trying to [rename](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2011/nov/08/winterval-modern-myth-christmas) Christmas.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.3. Pro: [Being anti-PC has become a form of virtue-signaling in conservative politics](http://nymag.com/intelligencer/2018/07/anti-pc-is-political-correctness-for-the-right.html).
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.6.4. Pro: Charlie Kirk recently tweeted Texas State University had voted to ban a conservative student group in an attack on free speech. The University issued [various statements](https://www.chronicle.com/article/students-ban-of/246097) saying it had not banned the group and no intention of doing so. Still, Kirk has made no attempt to remove, edit, correct, or clarify his false tweet.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.7. Con: This is a [slippery slope](https://www.thoughtco.com/slippery-slope-logical-fallacy-1692105) logical fallacy, as advocates of political correctness generally agree that politically incorrect statements are those that would offend a disadvantaged or discriminated against group in society.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.7.1. Pro: Not only advocates of political correctness, there is an established [definition](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_correctness) in this debate of "language or behavior that can be seen as excluding, marginalizing, or insulting groups of people considered disadvantaged or discriminated against" and that certainly can't be applied to "any speech".
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.7.1.1. Con: That definition also indicates that "political correctness" is generally used as a pejorative, implying excessive or unwarranted policies.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.7.1.1.1. Con: What the general public and the media think about political correctness is unrelated with whether or not there is a consensus on what is unacceptable speech.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.7.1.1.1.1. Con: What the general public and the media think -- common usage -- is central to political correctness because, as detailed in the cited definition, there is no consensus as to what is PC or unacceptable speech. In fact, the definition traces a history of shifting, largely political use of "political correctness", by different groups, and in different areas of society.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.7.2. Con: "Taking offence" is something personal thus subjective.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.7.2.1. Con: People can't choose how they feel about words, even if it’s subjective you can’t make “any speech” offend you.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.7.2.1.1. Con: Nothing suggests that people are limited in how they can feel about something.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.7.2.2. Con: Subjectivity does not mean it can't be measured or analyzed by experts.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.8. Con: What constitutes political correctness is what we as a society agree on. It is a social construct. As such, it doesn't inherently possess hard criteria. It is our job to reach a consensus on these criteria by having a discussion about them. This is how most of our values and norms have been formed in the past.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.8.1. Con: [Political polarization](https://www.people-press.org/2014/06/12/political-polarization-in-the-american-public/) has only increased in the last decades, trying to reach a consensus with two or more groups who have sorted themselves out as being different from one another is a hard if not impossible task.
1.10.3.2.4.1.1.9. Pro: Since there are no quantifiable metrics for 'injustice', 'oppression' and 'hate speech', those who fight for PC have no conditions by which they can win, and thus fight battles without end. Once begun, as it cannot win without the conditions for victory, the movement will continue until it reshapes all of society in its image, regardless of whether other people want to adopt their views or not.
1.10.3.2.4.2. Con: Personal attacks \(ad hominem\) on the base of an individual's fundamental characteristic\(s\) are not part of free speech, and as such have no place in public discourse.
1.10.3.2.4.3. Con: [The harm principle](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harm_principle) applied to psychological harm is a good justification to ban personal attacks, it’s far from being just “because someone doesn’t like it”.
1.10.3.2.4.4. Con: This claim depends heavily on the priorities one has. If one values safety over freedom, then it’s more valuable to dismiss personal attacks than letting the responsibility of the verbal defense on the victim.
1.10.3.2.5. Con: Free speech, where it is afforded uniformly, is enshrined in law, not in an optional, subjective component of culture.
1.10.3.2.6. Pro: Oppressed groups have enough difficulties just to discuss difficult topics, and anything \(such as not being politically correct\), could hinder opportunities and chances for these discussions to reach their potential or happen at all. Political correctness creates opportunity that would not occur otherwise.
1.10.3.2.6.1. Con: Political correctness blocks majority groups from reaching their potential in or even having discussions to the same effect that avoiding political correctness has on minority groups within discussions.
1.10.3.2.7. Pro: The opposite of political correctness is insensitive insults and bullying. When a majority group engages in regular marginalization of a minority, it has a profoundly chilling effect on that part of society. The harms of PC are far less than the harms of bullying.
1.10.3.2.8. Con: Political correctness merely creates an avenue to personally attack people for speaking freely, without even addressing the substance of their views. Bad ideas deserve to be discussed thoroughly and torn to shreds, not just dismissed. And not just hidden unchallenged behind a wall of silence.
1.10.3.3. Pro: In a [defensive democracy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defensive_democracy), members of a democracy believe it is necessary to limit some speech in order to protect and perpetuate a democratic government.
1.10.3.3.1. Pro: The [paradox of tolerance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance), [expressed by Karl Popper](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/25998-the-so-called-paradox-of-freedom-is-the-argument-that-freedom), gives an example of how, if a society that is tolerant without limit, its ability to be tolerant is eventually seized or destroyed by the intolerant.
1.10.3.3.1.1. Con: He was not, in general, in favor of suppressing intolerant speech, however. Also from Popper: “In this formulation, I do not imply, for instance, that we should always suppress the utterance of intolerant philosophies; as long as we can counter them by rational argument and keep them in check by public opinion, suppression would certainly be unwise."
1.10.3.3.1.1.1. Pro: As long as no one is bringing "fists and guns" \( Popper \), rational argument should be the preferred default.
1.10.3.3.1.1.2. Con: Abusive speech goes beyond what rational argument was intended to counter and should not be tolerated. Those resorting to abusive speech are not participating in rational debate but attempted to galvanize the troops and gain support. This cannot be allowed in a civilized society.
1.10.3.4. Pro: The [concept of free speech](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/12/two-concepts-of-freedom-of-speech/546791/) incorporates ideas about when and how speech must be [limited](https://www.uscourts.gov/about-federal-courts/educational-resources/about-educational-outreach/activity-resources/what-does).
1.10.3.4.1. Pro: We already manage to balance individual freedoms while forbidding words which ["by their very utterance, inflict injury"](https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/fighting_words) or are [obscence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_free_speech_exceptions#Obscenity).
1.10.3.4.1.1. Con: Political correctness has no end to its means. If a proponent of PC decides "obscene" is a term which might upset someone, conjuring visual images of obscene things, even the parent claim comment supporting PC can be considered politically incorrect.
1.10.3.4.2. Pro: The US Supreme Court [ruled](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brandenburg_v._Ohio) that speech which supports violence is protected by the Free Speech Amendment only until the speech directly encourages people to take immediate action.
1.10.3.4.3. Pro: [Falsely yelling fire in a crowded theater](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shouting_fire_in_a_crowded_theater) is a well-known hypothetical example about when speech must be limited. [But for](https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/but-for_test) the speech of the speaker, no one would be trampled to death.
1.11. Con: Unlimited freedom of speech can be used to spread hateful and/or harmful ideologies.
1.11.1. Con: The purpose of freedom of speech is to give these ideologies a platform so they can be torn down with logic. It is how we correct these ideas, take the platform away and they will present themselves through other \(perhaps more dangerous\) means.
1.11.2. Pro: Victims of any emotionally scarring experience, such as rape, molestation, etc, need defense against purposeful emotional abuse.
1.11.2.1. Con: In psychology it has been found that the [best way to cope with fear is to be exposed to it](https://books.google.co.uk/books?hl=en&lr=&id=VtjsAwAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq=%22principles+of+trauma+therapy%22+summary&ots=nPqvA9HOqD&sig=8F_Z3QpuTrHh9NkJP0OmKXJFpcM&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22principles%20of%20trauma%20therapy%22%20summary&f=false). It does far more damage to be controlled by fear than to be forced to confront that fear. Otherwise we would never heal from trauma.
1.11.3. Con: Even if the speech is forbidden, the thoughts and motivations remain. Difference is, with speech, you are at least aware of the other person having such thoughts. Otherwise, you are not even warned. So, free speech should remain, if for no other reason, then to warn the rest of the humanity about what someone is thinking.
1.11.4. Con: While freedom of speech can be used to spread harmful ideas it can also be used to spread beneficial ideas as well. Words will always have power and to limit the use of them will limit the ideas that might be able to change the world.
1.11.4.1. Con: There are clear differences between harmful ideas and beneficial ideas which can help differentiate the speech - mainly whether that speech results in people being harmed.
1.11.4.2. Con: If the harmful speech can be differentiated from beneficial speech, then only the harmful speech can be limited and the beneficial speech won't be, mitigating any risks associated with limiting speech.
1.11.5. Pro: The law on "hate speech" is in place to stop it [before it becomes a hate crime](https://www.washingtonpost.com/education/2018/10/23/woman-reported-racist-facebook-message-she-may-have-helped-stop-school-shooting/?utm_term=.47d61c7c66c7). Often times we see shooters, mass murderers, and racist attackers have been displaying the behaviour beforehand and yet nothing is done about it due to "freedom of speech." If a person is investigated for hate speech, particularly in terms of racist hate speech, you may even stop a bigger crime from happening.
1.11.6. Con: -> See 1.1.10.
1.11.7. Con: There is no objective way to identify hate speech.
1.11.7.1. Con: Many countries have instituted working definitions of [hate speech](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hate_speech). What qualifies as "hate speech" differs depending on the agreed definition of the society in context.
1.11.7.1.1. Pro: The European Commission launched in 2016 the [Code of Conduct](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_20_1135), a guideline to efficiently respond to the proliferation of racist and xenophobic hate speech online.
1.11.7.2. Con: There is no objective definition of bribe either \(classification depends on the context\) and yet bribery is illegal.
1.11.7.2.1. Pro: It's naive to think that bribe looks like a conventional contract where parties agree on terms and payment. It may take various forms depending on the context like non-verbal cues, and may look like a friendly exchange of courtesies. However the difficulties in pointing out bribery don't make it legal.
1.11.7.3. Pro: There is no clear definition on hateful/harmful ideologies. By the same logic one could claim unlimited freedom of speech is bad because it can be used to spread "homosexual propaganda".
1.11.7.3.1. Con: You can easily define hateful ideologies as those which promote violence against other people.
1.11.7.3.1.1. Pro: It is a false comparison to place "homosexual propaganda", which has no violent agenda, alongside, for example, Nazi propaganda, which has a clear violent agenda.
1.11.8. Con: Giving any authority the power to decide what is potentially hateful and/or harmful provides a weapon to use against free speech as a whole.
1.11.8.1. Con: There is nothing about this specific to speech; all non-anarchists concede that laws may be passed preventing particular behaviors on the grounds of their harmfulness.
1.11.8.2. Con: There are current examples of societies where hate speech is limited, like [Canada](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hate_speech_laws_in_Canada), and it's clear that no dictatorship was established and that it has positive impacts overall.
1.11.8.3. Con: The slippery slope argument is a fallacy. If it were not then all laws and rules would eventually lead to authoritarian regimes.
1.11.8.4. Pro: The term hate-speech can be used by governments to criminalize unwanted opposition.
1.11.8.4.1. Con: All laws have this potential for abuse.
1.11.8.5. Pro: Those who determine what speech is hateful or harmful changes over time, and giving the power to the government to decide what is and is not hateful and harmful will inevitably result in widespread oppression of ideas considered contrary to the interests of the ruling class.
1.11.8.5.1. Con: This may be a concern in non-democratic systems, but if governments remain beholden to the people, then the determination will remain fluid in response to the zeitgeist.
1.11.8.5.2. Con: There is no evidence of this happening without being driven by other factors.
1.12. Pro: Limiting speech is a slippery slope and it is hard to know how far we allow limits. If we begin cherry picking what is and isn't acceptable then we will never know when to stop.
1.12.1. Con: If the"slippery slope" were true, then by the same logic we could all have tanks and grenade launchers since guns are legal. We do our best to impose limits where necessary, and leave it to judges to judge, and elected officials to amend when required.
1.12.1.1. Con: This comparison is not the same. A more accurate comparison would be if the US banned tanks and grenades because they are dangerous \(ignoring the real purpose for protecting people's rights to have them\) and then guns were being considered using the same reasoning. Which appears to be the case there.
1.12.2. Pro: Speech once considered offensive made democracy move forward \(for instance, philosophers who criticised the meddling of Church in State in the 18th century\).
1.12.2.1. Pro: The democratic ideal is that free exchange of ideas, on aggregate, will progress society as a whole.
1.12.2.2. Con: Speech considered offensive might also make democracy move backwards.
1.12.2.3. Pro: Legislation against what people say is difficult if not impossible as people's interpretation of something is not consistent.
1.12.2.3.1. Con: By this logic, legislation against anything that people do - not just what they say - should be 'difficult if not impossible' due to differences in interpretation.
1.12.2.3.2. Pro: Accounting for different people and their perspectives is difficult.
1.12.2.3.3. Con: Such legislation exists and has been demonstrated to be effective.
1.12.2.3.4. Pro: People have various levels of sensitivity: it is always possible to find someone who will be offended by an opinion. It should not be reason enough to ban that opinion.
1.12.2.3.4.1. Con: This is why laws use the well established "reasonable person" standard.
1.12.2.3.4.2. Con: Perhaps this is true, but we do not necessarily have to limit free speech solely because it offends someone. Would you want me to have a conversation conspiring to murder someone? If not, you want to limit free speech. Would you want me to have a conversation that causes the human race to be exterminated? Otherwise there should be some limit on speech.
1.12.2.3.4.2.1. Con: We should permit these conversations, if by that you mean making it permissible to consider whether someone should be murdered, or whether the human race should be exterminated. You should be able to have a conversation on whether to assassinate Hitler, and if, for example, the existence of the human race threatened some multi-galaxy spanning civilization, you should be able to discuss the option of exterminating the human race.
1.12.3. Con: There is no evidence that setting limits on things - let alone speech - is a slippery slope.
1.12.4. Pro: There would eventually be so many laws on what acceptable that even though it would be considered or called " Free speech" the extended list of restriction would not allow this to truly be the case.
1.12.5. Con: It is possible to have clear limits that do not require cherry picking. These limit the ability for a slippery slope to occur.
1.12.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.
1.12.6. Con: Limits should be restricted to 1\) very specific and narrowly defined laws. 2\) a last resort 3\) promote a compelling interest and 4\) time, place, or manner restricted. An example is restricting nude dancing establishments. you can restrict that free speech but it meets all 4 limitations. The generic "hate speech" descriptions on the Con side of this argument normally fails to meet those limitations.
1.13. Pro: It is possible to legislate on what people do but not on what they think or say.
1.13.1. Con: Thought and speech are actions. Thinking is a verb, it is an active behavior. A thought is a result of thinking, the action, in the same way speech is the result of the action of muscle movement.
1.13.2. Con: The USA has some of the most liberal laws in the world and still has [multiple legislations that limit freedom of speech](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_free_speech_exceptions#Speech_owned_by_others).
1.13.3. Con: While it would be impossible to legislate on what one thinks, we make it so they are legally punished for expressing those thoughts out loud, such as in the case of hate speech.
1.13.3.1. Pro: When a public platform is used to say something, then it becomes a [public discourse](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1057/9780230513402_8). In the case of hate speech, it would then become public hate speech and should be legally punished.
1.13.3.2. Con: Limiting things like hate-speech will not stop it from being said, just not said in public. It is better that these things are discussed in the open so that everyone has a chance to contribute to the conversation and make sure that all sides to an debate are heard. Hate speech in the open allows those being discriminated to rebuttal in their defense instead of being ambushed later down the road.
1.13.3.2.1. Con: You cannot have a constructive discussion in an aggressive environment.
1.13.3.2.1.1. Pro: An attacked person cannot defend against some types of arguments like ad personam, ad invidiam, ad ignorantiam, in terrorem, etc. Eristic provides many such methods giving advantage to the one who is aggressive.
1.13.3.2.1.2. Con: Having a constructive discussion is not the only reason to speak. Here is an example: What if someone is attacking you or someone else and you can use aggressive words to deter them?
1.13.3.2.1.2.1. Con: This is the same as self-defense: when you are assaulted, attacking back is acceptable. This doesn't make attack on others acceptable in general.
1.13.3.2.2. Con: You can discuss controversial topics without resorting to hate speech.
1.13.4. Con: If that were true then we wouldn't have laws against defamation or slander.
1.13.5. Pro: In the US, any legislation prohibiting hate speech will be struck down by the Federal Court system as [unconstitutional](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/volokh-conspiracy/wp/2017/06/19/supreme-court-unanimously-reaffirms-there-is-no-hate-speech-exception-to-the-first-amendment/?utm_term=.f82285c51c38). Only speech that leads to a criminal act may be legislated against.
1.13.6. Con: Speaking is an action, and therefore a legislation on what people say is one on what they do.
1.13.7. Pro: -> See 1.12.2.3.
1.14. Con: One person's freedom ends where another's begins: offensive, threatening speech should be illegal.
1.14.1. Pro: Promoting an aggressor's freedom of speech over their victim's freedoms is not right.
1.14.2. Pro: Corporations should not be allowed to threaten citizens.
1.14.3. Con: If we do not protect offensive or threatening speech, but rather only protect speech that everyone agrees with, there will be no freedom of speech at all.
1.14.4. Con: Being offended by anything is only a threat to someone's ego.
1.14.4.1. Con: Being offended is a threat to that person's mental health, self esteem, etc. and offensive speech has [caused](http://www.bullyingstatistics.org/content/bullying-and-suicide.html) many suicides.
1.14.5. Pro: No legal limit on speech can cause non-legal limits on speech.
1.14.5.1. Pro: Having unlimited free speech allows people to legally harass and threaten other people.
1.14.5.1.1. Pro: Threats and harassment can be used on other people to prevent them from speaking out.
1.14.6. Pro: By definition freedom is limited. It is a relative concept that doesn't exist if there is nobody to share it with. The limit to my own freedom is the freedom of others. As long as what somebody says doesn't inflict on other's freedom then it is okay, but there is a limit.
1.14.7. Con: We need a clearer definition of "threatening speech" for this to be considered.
1.14.8. Con: Offense is subjective. What offends one person might not necessarily offend another. The power to judge what is offensive on behalf of every citizen is a power too great for any agency to hold and it should not be bestowed.
1.14.8.1. Con: Some acts that offend people cannot be defined as offensive by the majority of people, but a subset of actions that offend people can. It is not necessary to prohibit all types of offense, rather those actions that the majority of people would deem offensive.
1.14.8.2. Con: It's hard to offend someone when you're not trying to offend them.
1.14.8.3. Pro: What seems offensive to some is common sense to others. Threatening speech should be illegal, but there is no catagorical measurement of what is 'offensive'.
1.15. Pro: No one has a right to demand protection against being offended.
1.15.1. Pro: No one has ever actually been hurt by being offended. No one has ever got physically or mentally ill just because someone offended them. All that happens is they feel offended then move on and forget about it after a while.
1.15.1.1. Con: This statement is demonstrably false and is offered without any evidence. There are myriad example of mental illnesses brought on by repeated exposure to offensive statements. E.g. Depression, body dysmorphia, etc.
1.15.2. Pro: Being offended is a state of mind the resolution of which ought to be up to the individual offended. They may dispute the offensive statement, or not.
1.15.3. Con: Offending others is a form of harm, and causing harm should be disincentivized by law.
1.15.3.1. Pro: In France, a law was passed in 1972, [the Pleven Law](https://www.jstor.org/stable/422386?seq=1), to combat racist speech. With this law, it became illegal to use language that was racially defamatory.
1.15.4. Con: In some circumstances they do, such as in a private space such as a home or restaurant.
1.15.5. Con: Most limits on freedom of speech have little to do with offense.
1.15.5.1. Pro: [Limitations](https://www.policyed.org/intellections/limitsoffreespeech) for free speech include force, fraud, or defamation. Only implemented in the principle of preventing harm of others to get what they want. All these misuses of free speech can lead to more harm than just offense, such as loosing a job or relationships for being "unreputable".
1.15.6. Pro: -> See 1.14.8.
1.16. Pro: To control what ideas can be expressed publicly is to control social discourse and, to some extent, what people think. No agency should be bestowed such power.
1.16.1. Con: If an agency has the goal of protecting people or a social order, then they can have such a power bestowed upon them.
1.16.2. Con: If the people that are under the power of the agency have agreed to bestow that power on the agency, then it should be bestowed upon that agency.
1.16.3. Con: It already has, social media like; [Twitter](https://help.twitter.com/en/rules-and-policies/hateful-conduct-policy), [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/communitystandards/recentupdates/hate_speech), and [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45suVEYFCyc&feature=emb_logo&ab_channel=YouTubeCreators) have already created policies limiting what one can express. And it has had positive impacts, like restricting the spread of fake news, for example.
1.16.3.1. Pro: These companies are considered agencies by [definition](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/pt/dicionario/ingles/agency).
1.16.4. Con: It is simple enough to give power to a person or agency, and put limitations in place to prevent abuse: elected leaders, term limits, public votes etc all allow a means to rescind power when it starts to become abused. All 3 branches of the US government were made with this very concern in mind, so the checks and balances were formed to prevent abuses of power by any one agency.
1.16.5. Con: Freedom to express ideas is compatible with other limits on free speech, such as laws against harassment and psychological abuse.
1.16.6. Pro: Every censorship is government interference in an individual's thought process, which is basically the idea that the people who we vote for in government are able to regulate the collective's thought for \(often\) 4 years at a time.
1.16.6.1. Pro: The government could therefore enforce a monopoly on opinion and influence the upcoming elections to the advance of the ruling party. Limitations on Freedom of Speech can therefore harm the very fundamentals of a democracy.
1.16.7. Pro: Limiting speech is not trusting people to think and react critically.
1.16.8. Pro: -> See 1.11.8.