Discussion Name: UK General Election

1. Who would be the best party to win the next general election in the UK?
1.1. Labour
1.1.1. Pro: The labour parties values are better for most people
1.1.2. Con: Labour Party is financially less responsible
1.2. Conservative
1.2.1. Pro: The conservative have a greater number of talented people
1.2.2. Con: The Conservative party policies are bad for general public
1.2.3. Con: The Conservative party has been in power since 2010. It is detrimental to the health of a democracy for one party to hold power for too long.
1.2.4. Pro: The Conservatives are committed to a [low tax, high growth economy](https://www.conservatives.com/our-plan/economy), which is what the UK needs at the moment.
1.2.4.1. Pro: As of July 2022, the UK economy is experiencing its [lowest growth](https://www.igd.com/home/article-viewer/t/uk-to-have-slowest-growth-in-the-g7/i/29959) in a decade.
1.3. Liberal Democrat
1.3.1. Con: The Lib Dems failed to form a liberal, democratic policy on Brexit and will fail again when faced with other issues to stand for what they say they do
1.3.1.1. Con: Brexit was a once in a generation issue. It is unlikely the Lib Dems would be faced with an issue of that political magnitude this time round.
1.3.1.2. Pro: Brexit has defined politics for the last seven years, so failing to form a consistent Brexit policy in this time is concerning.
1.3.2. Pro: They are a the only real limit to a run-away two party system
1.3.2.1. Con: The Green Party seeks a [coalition](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2021/may/16/green-party-jonathan-bartley-keir-starmer-door-is-open-for-talks) government, who Labour, SNP, or Liberal Democrats could partner with. As such, the Liberal Democrats are not the only party who could shake up the two-party system.
1.3.2.2. Con: This is not a good thing as the current voting system means that voting for a third part will only result in a less proportional parlament.
1.3.3. Pro: The Liberal Democrats offer a compelling compromise politics that could break the deep-seated political divide in the UK.
1.3.3.1. Pro: The Liberal Democrats embody [liberalism and social democracy](https://www.libdems.org.uk/history)(The Liberal Democrats are the successors to two great reformist traditions in British politics – those of liberalism and of social democracy, which became separated from each other in the early part of the twentieth century, but are now reunited, in the shape of the Liberal Democrats.), which right-wing and left-wing voters can get behind, respectively.
1.4. Green
1.4.1. Con: They do not have a well rounded manifesto that would support a responsible leadership
1.4.2. Pro: Climate is a global issue as such they are the only globally oriented party which is an essential characteristic for a modern party
1.4.2.1. Con: There are many important global and domestic issues. Being oriented towards just one is reductive.
1.4.2.2. Con: Although the Green Party is founded on environmentalism, other parties also offer genuine commitment to protecting the environment and fighting climate change.
1.4.3. Con: As the Green Party has only ever had one elected MP, it does not have the experience or political infrastructure to take office.
1.4.3.1. Con: The notion that one must have experience in order to politically deliver is damaging to democracy as it implies that only seasoned, career politicians can run a country. Such a view indirectly endorses democratic stagnation.
1.4.4. Pro: One of the Green Party's primary goals is to introduce [proportional representation](https://www.greenparty.org.uk/green-guarantee/a-citizens-democracy.html), which would dramatically improve British democracy.
1.4.4.1. Pro: Proportional representation would benefit even those whose first choice isn't the Green Party as their first choice is more likely to gain at least some political power.