Discussion Name: Would Humanity Be Better Off Under A Global Government?

1. Humanity would be better off under a global government.
1.1. Con: If a single government fails, all humanity fails. With many government there is bound to have one or many governments which make the right decision or protects its portion of mankind from potential self-made annihilation.
1.1.1. Pro: If humanity fails to develop technologically or colonize, a planetary disaster could kill us all.
1.1.1.1. Pro: The government of 'The North Sentinel Island tribe have failed to colonize out of their island or develop beyond prehistoric technology. Many other island government have failed to develop beyond prehistoric technology because of a single government system.
1.1.2. Pro: Single government systems such as tribes with no neighbors \(in island or dense jungle for example\) have failed to develop beyond prehistoric technology.
1.1.2.1. Pro: The North Sentinel Island tribe have failed to colonize out of their island or develop beyond prehistoric technology
1.1.3. Pro: If a government becomes inefficient, and impossible to change from the inside; there would be no outside government to show how an efficient government works or to compare to.
1.1.4. Pro: Existing pan-national organisations such as the UN are frequently unable to pass policies because nations such as China and Russia use their [veto](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations_Security_Council_veto_power). There is a risk that similar problems would occur under a global government.
1.1.5. Con: With multiple governments there is a greater chance that an act of nuclear war could destroy all life on earth.
1.2. Con: The existence of a global government which controls humanity would be the climactic failure in experimental multiculturalism, as multiculturalism is the state the globe exists in, which contributes extensively towards historic events such as war, as different cultures when required to coexist within an undergirding single identity, typically one which forms a nation.
1.3. Pro: A global government would simplify trade and benefit the global economy.
1.3.1. Con: When even a small government implements trade policies that marginalize minority producers or farmers, one can only expect this trend to be amplified and whole countries be put out of business and in need of looking for something else to do, in the face of competition by those better suited.
1.3.2. Pro: A global government would make it easier to create a world with no tariffs or trade barriers between nations.
1.3.3. Con: Simplified trade simply speeds up exploitation of easy to access resources by those who already have the means to rapidly exploit those, at the cost of those who actually need it.
1.3.4. Con: Simplified trade can ruin national pension plans that might bot be able to come up with alternative plans.
1.4. Pro: The world would be ruled better under a one world government.
1.4.1. Pro: It could act as a strong safeguard against corruption at the top of national politics
1.4.2. Pro: A global government would result in consistent laws.
1.4.2.1. Con: Globalism would result in the universality of laws, but not necessarily the consistency of laws, since any type of government is at risk of passing laws which contradict one another.
1.4.2.2. Con: This assumes that the laws created will be to the benefit of all, or even the majority, and it is very possible that they will not be so.
1.4.2.3. Con: Many large nations adopt [pluralistic legal frameworks](https://www.oxfordhandbooks.com/view/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199542475.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199542475-e-34). A global government is likely to do this as well.
1.4.2.4. Pro: More globalized taxation laws could help solve global poverty, and increase wealth creation in the poorest parts of the world.
1.4.2.5. Pro: Consistent laws could lead to increased stability and security in third world countries which would lead to much needed economic, educational and social development in those countries.
1.4.2.6. Con: Those laws can be very oppressive, and by applying them everywhere you deny people the right to choose the laws they want.
1.4.2.6.1. Con: They may, and they may not be, depending on the legislative model chosen for the global government \(parliamentary, etc.\).
1.4.2.6.2. Con: One could say the same of every government model, whether global or not. Nobody gets to choose which law suits them most.
1.4.3. Pro: Global government as a federation or confederation with enough administrative levels would ensure that the decision making remains close enough to general populace. The central government could take care of global issues.
1.4.3.1. Con: In many areas of the world people dispute who is a "legitimate" inhabitant and who is not. A global government would have to decide which group has greater claim to certain territories, necessarily antagonizing some groups over others.
1.4.3.1.1. Con: Under a global government it wouldn't really be necessary to divide territory as there would be no formal difference.
1.4.3.1.2. Pro: Unless the global government sought to eliminate cultural identities as well, different human groups will continue to lay claim to certain territories.
1.4.3.2. Pro: As long as it has a universal constitution that can be enforced worldwide by an international military police force and executive/judicial/legislative body that is operated by an organized direct democracy with laws originating at the local level.
1.4.4. Con: A global government would make it easier for a small corrupt group or individual to rule the world.
1.4.4.1. Pro: There would be no true escape from a corrupt global government.
1.4.4.2. Con: With the high stakes that come with such a global government, one can expect a similarly high-level scrutiny of above-mentioned government by the civil society.
1.4.4.3. Pro: A Global Government could only exist if global capitalism was abolished where human and environmental welfare were the sole concern.
1.4.4.4. Con: The heirachical nature of a government goes against the well intentioned idea that we must work together to achieve success. A set of global priorities for all humans could be agreed upon and used as an alternative to a small group of individuals holding so much decision-making power. A new system would have to be designed so that those leaning towards narcissism and grandeur, and therefore self-interest, would not end up in charge of key decision processes.
1.4.4.5. Pro: The best way of maintaining peace has been a "Balance of Powers" \(BoP\). [1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balance_of_power_\(international_relations\)) All wars have been instigated by a perceived/real imbalance of BoP. [2](https://www.realclearhistory.com/articles/2018/02/08/weapons_that_forged_the_uks_empire_266.html) Legal Checks & Balances are not a good BoP. BoP's require dynamic extra-judicial inter-state power realignment. Small nation states form stable BoP's by grouping with most similar nations. BoP is impossible if a hegemon owns everything. If a central government gets rotten \(as governments do from time to time, it's normal\), there is NO BoP for the weak [3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balance_of_power_\(international_relations\))
1.5. Pro: People would have a better quality of life under a global government.
1.5.1. Pro: A global government would not have to compete for power on the international stage. Thus it can focus solely on improving societal wellbeing.
1.5.1.1. Con: There is no unitary and practical measure that could benefit the lives of everyone in the world, at the same time. Thus, whenever a decision was made, a portion of this new global population would be hurt at cost of issues considered to be priority, in the respective moment.
1.5.1.2. Con: There is no universal definition for "wellbeing". It would simply pursue and force down its version of it on everyone, oblivious to the other versions of wellbeing that are marginalized or unrepresented for whatever reason.
1.5.1.3. Con: Such a government would have to divide certain parts into more localized regions. Such regions would then vie for power.
1.5.1.3.1. Con: Although they may vie for power, this competition would be based on soft-power and politics, not open conflict. Thus, even if competition arises, a fair chunk of the world's production would still be devoted to social and educational progress instead of arms and weapons.
1.5.1.3.2. Con: The division of needs isn't necessarily dictated by geography, but rather by interest of certain groups. If so, then local governments wouldn't have so much influence to remain powerful. So is the case in many unitary states, which have regional administration, where no fight for power takes place.
1.5.1.4. Pro: A global government would eliminate territory disputes.
1.5.1.4.1. Con: Not necessarily: there still would be different populations with each their own identity and philosophy. How could you possibly convince them all to adhere to the universal government? They would all want independence and territory.
1.5.1.4.1.1. Con: Such a global government may not necessarily be something one adheres to, and could very well be something that the world creates together in order to achieve societal progress.
1.5.1.4.1.2. Con: This does not already present as an issue in currently established nations.  For example, the states within the USA do not attempt to take territory from one another.
1.5.1.4.1.2.1. Con: A number of states in already established nations are trying to be independent, however. Brexit, Scotland in the UK, and Catalonia in Spain are recent, pacifist examples. Unfortunately, there are also non-pacifist attempts.
1.5.1.5. Con: There is no consensus on what is "wellbeing". Inevitably someones concept of that will be forced on everyone.
1.5.1.6. Pro: A global government would result in a consolidation of power that humanity has never before seen.
1.5.1.6.1. Con: If that global government turns bad, there would be no other powerful entity to oppose to that government, and no way to run away from it.
1.5.1.6.1.1. Con: A government leads a population. Said population will always be able to topple any government provided they wish it, if only because of numbers \(especially when those numbers are in the billions\).
1.5.1.7. Pro: One global government would mean far less need be spent on arms and weapons.
1.5.1.7.1. Con: Unless most people do not accept the government, and it would choose force to promote its policies.
1.5.2. Con: With a great number of small governments, there is more probabilistic chance that at least one government makes good and sound economic, political, environmental and social reforms and that urged by its success other countries imitate it.
1.5.2.1. Pro: From 1830 to 1860 the social and economic industrial reforms in [Germany](http://www.sjsu.edu/faculty/watkins/germany.htm) imitated the industrial reforms that were made in England. Had Europe been one single political entity; there might never have been a push for the industrial revolution that started in England and was only then imitated by other countries.
1.5.2.2. Con: The opposite is the case. With a great number of governments, there is more chance that at least one government makes ruthless decisions which benefit it on the expense of others. Urged by the success of these methods, other governments will imitate them.
1.5.2.2.1. Con: If a single government starts despoiling, enslaving, oppressing or killing religious, ethnic, or other minorities to benefit or enrich its ruling class, those people could not flee from that government to another government.
1.5.2.2.2. Con: A single government would have all the military strength in the world. It's leader could be as ruthless as it wants to benefit himself without fear of external threat to his authority.
1.5.2.3. Pro: Governments of developing countries typically spend resources equivalent to between 15 and 30 percent of GDP. Hence, small changes in the efficiency of public spending could have a significant impact on GDP and on the attainment of the government’s objectives.[web.worldbank.org](http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/TOPICS/EXTDEBTDEPT/0,,contentMDK:20297571~menuPK:4876071~pagePK:64166689~piPK:64166646~theSitePK:469043,00.html)
1.5.2.4. Pro: -> See 1.1.2.
1.5.2.5. Pro: History shows that smaller governments are better for the environments. With a number of smaller governements, there is more chance that one government decides to take radical action to protect the environment and that urged by its success other countries imitate it.
1.5.2.5.1. Pro: In 1872, the first successful [national park](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_park#First_efforts:_Hot_Springs,_Arkansas_and_Yosemite_Valley) was established in the Yellowstone USA, preventing industrial or commercial development, through the actions of president Theodore Roosevelt and his group of conservationists, the Boone and Crockett Club. From that success a lot of other countries established large national parks all around the world to protect nature : Australia, Canada, Sweden, Switzerland, Congo, South Africa, etc.
1.5.3. Con: Nobody could flee from a bad single government if there is a single government.
1.5.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.2.2.1.
1.5.3.2. Pro: -> See 1.5.2.2.2.
1.5.3.3. Con: But this could be a good thing because prisoners that escape can not hide from the government as a result there could be a chance crime rates go down.
1.5.3.4. Pro: -> See 1.4.4.
1.5.4. Pro: If there was a global government there would no longer be [stateless](https://www.unhcr.org/uk/stateless-people.html) people.
1.5.4.1. Con: There are other solutions to this problem, such as governments who might extend open invitations to such people, or offer them refugee status.
1.5.5. Pro: Humanity is able to address existential threats \(climate change, resource shortages, artificial intelligence\) more readily under a global government.
1.5.5.1. Pro: A global government would manage and protect resources \(natural, mineral, water etc\) much more effectively.
1.5.5.1.1. Con: Large global governments tend to squander resources and stump technologies necessary to economical development due to their bureaucratic nature and the excessive wealth they have.
1.5.5.1.2. Con: Disastrous policies regarding resources could have even more harmful consequences in a global government.
1.5.5.2. Con: If that single government decides to not address an annihilation threat until it is too late, all of humanity could be doomed.
1.5.5.3. Con: -> See 1.5.2.5.
1.5.5.4. Pro: Nuclear disarmament becomes easier under a global government.
1.5.5.5. Con: One world government would likely result in less competition between member states \(or member regions\). This would likely result in less resources invested in research and less economic competition resulting in fewer economic reforms.
1.5.5.5.1. Con: Competition is not only between states but also within. One can expect the level of competition between companies, universities, etc. to remain the same.
1.5.5.5.2. Con: Competition is not the only driver of progress. [Cooperation](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2016/05/160512100708.htm) appears to have a large role in evolution as well.
1.5.5.5.3. Pro: Under the cold war, competition between the US and the Soviet Union resulted in humans on the moon.
1.5.5.5.3.1. Con: The actual short terms benefits of this achievement for humans living on Earth is questionable.
1.5.5.5.4. Con: If happiness isn't correlated to progression, then maybe economical and scientific progression would slow down, but global happiness would go up.
1.5.6. Con: The most desirable locales would experience overpopulation due to easier travel and relocation.
1.5.6.1. Pro: This problem already exist despite strict border regulation in the current countries. Under a global government there would be no borders and the problem would intensify.
1.5.6.1.1. Con: Having a global government does not necessarily mean that there are no borders or that there is freedom to choose your place of residence planetwide. E.g., one could restrict the areas on which a global government can decide upon on introducing a global tax regime \(minimum personal and corporate taxes worlwide\), a global basic income regime, global military issues \(like global demilitarization\) and issues with global environmental impact and leave the rest as it is today.
1.5.6.2. Con: There would be no political refugees, because that would make no sense in a world with unified politics.
1.5.6.2.1. Con: Merely changing the system of government does not change peoples' ethnicity, prejudices or beliefs, nor does it change their economic status... the effect of all of these may well be accelerated.
1.5.6.3. Con: The same holds for more desirable locations inside of a country.
1.6. Con: The world is too different to function under one government.
1.6.1. Pro: There is so much variety in the world: each region has its own needs, resources, level of development, and cultures. It would be impossible to make laws that satisfy equally everyone without any bias in favor of a specific region.
1.6.1.1. Con: All human beings have almost the same physical needs for survival. Essential food, water, body temperature and health is same for all. So Laws to protect and provide these essential conditions not only can but also must be the same globally. In fact only this will really define the term "human rights".
1.6.1.2. Pro: Every law and government communication would have to be translated to every language in the world, using too much time and money.
1.6.1.2.1. Con: English is already a de facto lingua franca in the international scene. The UN has a few official languages, allowing most of the world's population to have documents in their native language. A global government would not pose any language issue.
1.6.1.2.2. Con: However, the use of an auxiliar international language like Esperanto could be the solution to this problem. Actually It would be necessary for a global government.
1.6.1.3. Pro: Certain religious groups refuse to accept human governance, with varying means of resistance.
1.6.1.3.1. Pro: Catholicism created [its own](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vatican_City) nation/state.
1.6.1.3.2. Pro: Some parts of Islam [demand Sharia](https://www.dawn.com/news/1384229) law before any other judicial system.
1.6.1.3.3. Pro: The [Amish](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2014/08/15/amish-ten-things-you-need-to-know/14111249/) create their own community inside the government.
1.6.1.4. Con: Government should be independent of culture, religion and ethnicity. The argument above presupposes a religious fundamentalist state or an ethnostate.
1.6.1.5. Pro: Different governmental models have had varying amounts of support from their populations. Those models antithetical to the existing structures would generate resistance.
1.6.1.5.1. Con: A global government does not need to be centralised, and may be a decentralised government, allowing various populations to choose the local/regional government model that best suits their culture.
1.6.1.6. Con: With this logic, the only acceptable form of government would be a union of individual sovereign citizens, each being a government in its own right.
1.6.1.7. Pro: Forcing rival groups together into artificially constructed countries has led to civil warfare, for instance in Iraq. A similar problem could arise if rival countries today were forced to be in the same global government.
1.6.1.7.1. Con: Forcing rival groups together into artificially constructed countries has led to civil warfare when one or several groups oppressed other groups, or when the government heavily favoured one group over the others. An unbiased government would not antagonise rival groups, and create an environment where coexistence is possible.
1.6.1.7.1.1. Con: There are some matters \(such as theological interpretation\) which rival groups would not be able to tolerate from each other, making the creation of such an environment difficult.
1.6.1.7.2. Con: Forcing rival individuals together into artificially constructed groups \(whatever they may be\) has led to fights between some individuals. Yet, that was not enough to stop us from living in societies that are mostly, peaceful.
1.6.1.7.2.1. Con: There has yet to be a single time in history where there was zero warfare globally. Evidently, we cannot live in peace with other nations.
1.6.1.7.2.1.1. Con: It can also be said that never before in history has all of humankind been organized politically into one homogeneous group.  Most nations within the developed world do not experience armed conflict within the nation itself.
1.6.1.8. Pro: One size fits all means that nothing fits right for anyone. Local government is far more responsive to the people.
1.6.1.8.1. Pro: It would be almost impossible to implement international law, as they would need to rely on different jurisdictions.
1.6.1.8.2. Pro: It would be impossible to fix a global minimum wage, because it would be either too high for the underdeveloped regions or too low for the developed regions.
1.6.1.8.2.1. Con: A global government implies a higher cooperation between "states", thus advancing towards homogenising development throughout the world. "Developed" and "Underdeveloped" may no longer be relevant after a time.
1.6.1.8.2.2. Con: A global minimum wage is not necessary. Japan is one such example of a country that provides a minimum wage that differs in each prefecture, depending on cost of living. A similar system would be conceivable on a global scale.
1.6.1.8.2.3. Con: If produce price is scaled depending on country and availability, and is centrally moderated, it may well be possible to find a suitable minimum wage.
1.6.1.8.3. Con: This is not necessarily true. To enforce a global government's directive, a certain degree of local government will always be necessary; the point is more to unify international forces, strengthen the global economy, etc. As such, the two are not mutually exclusive, and indeed work best together.
1.6.1.9. Pro: This global government would heavily rely on communication technologies. If for some reasons, this technology disappears or becomes unavailable, the government will not be able to operate. Today's governments can still operate with, or rollback to, paper and pens in case of nature disasters.
1.6.1.10. Con: The [UN](http://www.un.org/en/) has already achieved many [legally binding international agreements](https://blogs.un.org/blog/2012/09/24/most-ratified-international-treaties/), which have been accepted by every country in the world.
1.6.2. Pro: Humans strongly disagree on what values are legitimate, and it is not clear how a global government would accommodate those disagreements. Attempts to create a global government might set off civilizational war rather than allowing individual nations to peacefully coexist.
1.6.2.1. Pro: The cultural clashes in the US and the resulting political dysfunction demonstrates the difficulties and handicaps associated with governing groups that disagree vehemently.
1.6.2.2. Con: Civilizations do not need to undergo drastic change or lose their identity to join a globalist government. Much like the dialogue between the individual states and the United States federal government countries could maintain a relationship with a global ruling body that could accommodate both local values as well as global philosophies.
1.6.2.3. Con: For strong disagreement on what values are legitimate you only need two people. Theses struggles, to find common ground are true at any level \(district, city, region, state, federal, etc\), yet people, in general, do coexist peacefully.
1.6.2.3.1. Con: As history has shown \(e.g. [French revolution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_Revolution)\) people tend to not peacefully coexist any longer when their disagreement reaches a specific level of fundamentality, such as future form of government or general judicial system.
1.6.2.3.1.1. Con: At the same time effectiveness of such conflict escalation is less impactful on a global government as it is improbable that an extremist movement would reach a global extent.
1.6.2.3.1.2. Pro: Based on the fact that every system of coexistence needs a common set of rules to live within, it would be necessary which rules should apply. Every system is based on morals and beliefs but there is no fair objective way to evaluate its suitability without denying foreign values.
1.6.2.3.2. Con: Values can barely be decided by the smaller governments that currently make up the world. Revolts, marches, protests all occur on a regular basis to criticise the leading government. A global government would intensify that issue.
1.6.2.3.2.1. Con: Values \(honesty, respect, compassion, etc\) are facts, facts about the well-being of sentient creatures. It is the ONLY thing we have to agree on as a starting point for establishing a common \(global\) ethical framework.
1.6.2.4. Pro: It is naive to think that a global government would remain benevolent. "Power Corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely" -Lord Acton. Imagine the corruption, the power struggle between officials, the constant expansion of government powers, etc.
1.6.2.4.1. Con: There could be an opt-out option for its memberstates like in the EU. Also, there could be an emphasis on local governments and independent political organs, like expert-groups.
1.6.2.4.1.1. Con: If a nation ops out of being under global control, there is no global government.
1.6.2.4.2. Con: [Argumentum in terrorem.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appeal_to_fear) Appealing to fear is not a logically correct way of reasoning.
1.6.2.5. Con: Inequality of access to information around the globe may have created important knowledge gaps, which could be the source of most disagreements
1.6.2.5.1. Con: This implies that there is a universal set of truths and "right" decisions, provided that the access to information is limitless. Nevertheless, factors like parental education, childhood and religion have an impact on the opinions on people regardless of their access to knowledge.
1.6.3. Pro: Diversity of mindsets, cultures and eventually, governments, is more effective survival strategy. Different people pay attention on different things and react to threats differently. Therefore, the most complex understanding of the world and the best optimized responses to future threats are achieved only if governance remains diverse.
1.7. Con: If even a national government can't assess the capability of their local resources, how will a global government do it?
1.8. Con: Local resources will be easier to exploit.
1.9. Con: If the government makes a mistake then EVERYBODY will suffer as a result and the damage will not be as easily contained.
1.10. Pro: If it can govern by making things possible purely by making things transparent and visible, instead of by coercion / attempting to control beyond that mandate, maybe.
1.11. Con: Any system of mass control that can be manipulated by a minority to their own benefit, will be manipulated by a minority for their own benefit, to the detriment of most. It's a natural result of the greed in human nature. Even if an altrusitic group sets it up, they will inevitably be replaced by selfish interests.
1.12. Pro: Without some sort of global coordination, is it inevitable that some national government will manage to exercise absolute control over others countries? Is some sort of global governance needed to hide or protect minorities or to curb the power of those who got rich off exploitation?
1.13. Pro: The consolidation of knowledge and information under a global government would increase the rate of technological and societal progress.
1.13.1. Con: Government knowledge is not a source of technological progress.
1.13.2. Con: Historically, the innovation pace was at highest in competing situations. Without competition the states were prone to stagnation. [Great Divergence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Divergence).
1.13.3. Con: A majority of the world technologies were created through competition between governments. Such national competition will be needed for important discoveries to be funded and developed.
1.13.3.1. Pro: USA has sent astronauts on the moon to catch up with the Soviet space travel superiority. When the space race finished with the gas depression and USA-USSR 1972 [detente](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-17858981); it took from 1976 to 2019 for China to push space travel one small notch higher to catch up technologically. Without many governments competing for technological superiority there would be no pressure for such enormous investment of public spending \([1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_jet_aircraft_of_World_War_II)\).
1.13.3.2. Pro: Without government competition, there would not have been any development of weapon-making, mining, guns, advanced metallurgy, the first jet aircraft, etc.
1.13.3.3. Con: The desire to create new technologies can not be not solely linked to nationalism.
1.13.3.3.1. Pro: Not necessarily. There can still be competition within one market.One example ; within the USA \(one country\) there are a number of competitors being inventive in different ways to serve NASA and Commercial needs in space.
1.13.4. Con: Some of the world greatest inventions come from the existence and peaceful coexistence of different governments. Under one single government and one way of doing things, necessary inventions could be prevented from ever appearing.
1.13.4.1. Pro: The ancestor of most if not all historical and modern alphabet comes from Proto-Canaanite which came from the peaceful coexistence of a developed Egypt beside a developing Canaan. Without coexistence of two such different government, alphabets would never have been developped, and technological development might never have passed from the middle-ages to the modern era.
1.13.4.1.1. Pro: Alphabet was necessary for the invention and use of the printing press. Without the [printing press](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Printing_press#Circulation_of_information_and_ideas), we would not have the diffusion of knowledge that allowed us to pass from the middle ages to the modern age.
1.13.4.1.2. Pro: Proto-Cannanite script is believed to have come from Canaanites with strong links to Egyptian culture using sounds associated with symbolic hyeroglyphs to represent [their semitic tongue](https://ancientneareast.org/2012/02/04/was-proto-sinaitic-the-origin-of-the-alphabet/).
1.13.4.2. Con: More often [war](https://science.howstuffworks.com/war-drive-technological-advancement.htm) \(or the threat of war\) has driven invention.
1.14. Con: Current governance structures wouldn't apply to a global government; this makes it difficult and risky to implement.